util/util initialised, read 56 collections
util/doc initialised 
About to start server on port 8007 with config:
{"port":"8007","urlPrefix":"","embeddingURL":"http://127.0.0.1:3035/embeddings","summaryURL":"http://127.0.0.1:8000/generate","inferenceEngine":"vllm","relativeUploadDir":"uploads","relativeTranscriptsDir":"static/transcripts/","audioInterviewCore":"audio2Interview","audioSessionCore":"audio2Session","audioSessionPartCore":"audio2SessionPart","audioReindexQueueCore":"audioReindexQueue","audioHost":"nla.gov.au","util":{},"solr":{},"interviewUtil":{}}
server is running at port 8007 with key/cert
Nothing in reindex queue
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
getInterview http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2Interview/select?wt=json&rows=1&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=interviewId,title,subtitle,collection,interviewee,interviewer,sponsor,yyyymmdd,loadedBy,loadedDate,summary,comment,embedding
getInterview status: 200
GOT IV [object Object]
getSessionsAndParts iv:nla.obj-203494363 session count:2
about to get http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2SessionPart/select?wt=json&rows=9999&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=sessionId,sessionSeq,partType,partId,startcs,endcs,content,sessionTranscript,embedding,indexToLowerContent&sort=sessionSeq asc, partId asc
getSessionsAndParts done for nla.obj-203494363
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
proxy: /nla.obj-203494374
proxy set OPTIONS={"hostname":"nla.gov.au","port":443,"path":"/tarkine/listen/download/nla.obj-203494374?copyRole=l2","method":"GET","headers":{"user-agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.13; rv:63.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/63.0","accept":"audio/webm,audio/ogg,audio/wav,audio/*;q=0.9,application/ogg;q=0.7,video/*;q=0.6,*/*;q=0.5","accept-language":"en-US,en;q=0.5","range":"bytes=0-","dnt":"1","connection":"keep-alive","sec-fetch-dest":"audio","sec-fetch-mode":"no-cors","sec-fetch-site":"same-origin","sec-gpc":"1","accept-encoding":"identity","priority":"u=4","cookie":"amadeula=nla.obj-203494374%2C","referer":"https://nladom-test.nla.gov.au/"}}
PROXY RET statusCode 206 msg Partial Content headers {"server":"nginx","date":"Fri, 30 Aug 2024 00:07:15 GMT","content-type":"audio/mpeg","content-length":"44386176","connection":"keep-alive","cache-control":"public, max-age=31536000","accept-ranges":"bytes","etag":"nla.obj-203494374","content-range":"bytes 0-44386175/44386176","content-disposition":"attachment; filename=nla.obj-203494374.mp3","x-content-type-options":"nosniff"}
editedTranscript got id nla.obj-203494363
GOT JSON BODY:{"speakers":[{"id":0,"name":"Bernard \"Midget\" Farrelly"}],"transcript":{"chunks":[{"speaker":0,"validated":0,"content":[{"s":227,"d":4,"t":"I"},{"s":233,"d":10,"t":"am"},{"s":245,"d":30,"t":"Bernard"},{"s":277,"d":30,"t":"Midget"},{"s":311,"d":-11,"t":"Farrelly."},{"s":406,"d":-6,"t":"I"},{"s":408,"d":1,"t":"live"},{"s":500,"d":50,"t":"at"},{"s":551,"d":1,"t":"21"},{"s":558,"d":22,"t":"Palm"},{"s":582,"d":24,"t":"Beach"},{"s":612,"d":26,"t":"Road,"},{"s":648,"d":24,"t":"Palm"},{"s":674,"d":26, ...
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
 id nla.obj-203494374 chunks: 78
   speakers: [{"id":0,"name":"Bernard \"Midget\" Farrelly"}]
Session nla.obj-203494374 contents length: 26144
IN storeSessionAndQueueSummarisation  interviewDoc:{"interviewId":"nla.obj-203494363","title":"Bernard \"Midget\" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts.","collection":["Other"],"loadedBy":"kfitch","loadedDate":"2024-06-07T07:01:08.464Z","interviewee":["Farrelly, Bernard \"Midget\""],"interviewer":["recording]., Neil Bennetts [sound"],"sponsor":["National Library of Australia","Oral History and Folklore"],"yyyymmdd":"Unknown","summary":"\nBernard \"Midget\" Farrelly recounts his surfing career, starting with wooden boards in Sydney and transitioning to short bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. He competed in the 1960s and moved to Freshwater Surf Club. Farrelly discusses the shift in surfing culture, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, leading to a broader public interest. Inspired by these films, he and his peers traveled to Hawaii in 1960, seeking the lifestyle depicted. Farrelly talks about his first functional surfboard design and the impact of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing. ...
session.yyyymmdd:Unknown interviewDoc.yyyymmdd:Unknown
QUEUING INTERVIEW SUMMARY GENERATION ---
Deleting solr core audioReindexQueue  query: docid:"**INTERVIEW**nla.obj-203494363"
solrDelete  query: docid:"**INTERVIEW**nla.obj-203494363" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":0}}
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
Got audio to summarise from reindex queue: {"id":"1724976441403","timestamp":1724976441,"docid":"nla.obj-203494374","transcriptJson":["{\"sessionId\":\"nla.obj-203494374\",\"deliveryObject\":\"nla.oh-2802-0000-0001-s1\",\"transcript\":{\"chunks\":[{\"speaker\":0,\"validated\":0,\"content\":[{\"s\":227,\"d\":4,\"t\":\"I\"},{\"s\":233,\"d\":10...
findAudioToSummarise got session [object Object]
proxy: /nla.obj-203494642
proxy set OPTIONS={"hostname":"nla.gov.au","port":443,"path":"/tarkine/listen/download/nla.obj-203494642?copyRole=l2","method":"GET","headers":{"user-agent":"Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10.13; rv:63.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/63.0","accept":"audio/webm,audio/ogg,audio/wav,audio/*;q=0.9,application/ogg;q=0.7,video/*;q=0.6,*/*;q=0.5","accept-language":"en-US,en;q=0.5","range":"bytes=0-","dnt":"1","connection":"keep-alive","sec-fetch-dest":"audio","sec-fetch-mode":"no-cors","sec-fetch-site":"same-origin","sec-gpc":"1","accept-encoding":"identity","priority":"u=4","cookie":"amadeula=nla.obj-203494642%2C","referer":"https://nladom-test.nla.gov.au/"}}
PROXY RET statusCode 206 msg Partial Content headers {"server":"nginx","date":"Fri, 30 Aug 2024 00:07:34 GMT","content-type":"audio/mpeg","content-length":"40416384","connection":"keep-alive","cache-control":"public, max-age=31536000","accept-ranges":"bytes","etag":"nla.obj-203494642","content-range":"bytes 0-40416383/40416384","content-disposition":"attachment; filename=nla.obj-203494642.mp3","x-content-type-options":"nosniff"}

==>CHUNK 0 -  time 227-17929239 words: I am Bernard Midget Farrelly. I live at 21 Palm Beach Road, Palm Beach, New South Wales. I'm recording this at my factory surf blinks at 11 West Street Book Vale on the 30th day of October 1984. It says here I am an Australian and international surf rider. What do that mean? The first title would be the 1963 Makaha International Serving. I forget what it was called exactly. I'd say Makaha, just call it Makaha International 1963. It was more or less the only international event that was considered a world title. before official world titles. After that, 1964, Australian and official world champion. The following year, Australian champion, 65, 1966, 6th place world championship. Oh, I left out the 65 World Championships, didn't make it to the final yet. 66 made it to 68, made it to equal first and then second on a count back. 1970 made it to second place. And as you've noted, Australian champion 64 and 65. A few... Uh, unusual contest titles. They mean, there's Bobby Brown Memorial. Contest at, uh, Sanctuary Beach, around the Canola area. And one that I thought was a little bit interesting, the small wave event. in Peru in 1960 or I believe also the Gunston 500 in 1970 at Durban South Africa a few other little small ones here and there but I think they're the main ones I was born in 1944 at Paddington.

==>CHUNK 1 -  time 18169-32367203 words: My parents were English originally from Ireland on my father's side Australian with an American father on my mother's side I have my earliest recollection of this surf going back to the age of six my uncle who was a Bondi lifesaver took me out on the surfboard when I was six years old at North Bondi I didn't enjoy it the first time I went out in fact I think I was terrified I didn't go near a surfboard until six years later when I was 12. In the meantime, my parents had taken me to live in a few different countries. I spent a year in Wales, I spent a year in Canada, and I spent a year in New Zealand. traveling to Canada and returning. I saw surfing at Waikiki and became slightly fascinated. What's the word did your father do? My father did anything and everything from running a photography business to running a a taxi to many other things, which I can't remember. What was the reason for this? He was dissatisfied with Australia, dissatisfied with the attitude of the people of this country at the time. thought that there had to be better places in the world.

==>CHUNK 2 -  time 32479-44335214 words: So he went looking further. So how did that affect your school? It was terrific because it ripped me out of school before I got too established or too entrenched in any sort of localisms. And so I went to school in different countries, was exposed to different cultures, was taught by women teachers, which was unthinkable in Australia at the time, went to coeducational school, which was totally unthinkable in Australia at the time. So it was a great advantage to travel from country to country and go to school there for one year. So when you finished, when did the serving start? I was living in Nairnly around about 1955, 1956. Less than 100 yards or so from the beach. I used to go and look at the waves because I travel by ship to different countries. I've sort of developed an appreciation for the ocean. I've been in fairly big storms in the North Atlantic and I've sort of gotten to like the ocean when I've gotten fairly sort of wild. I went down to Manly quite often to watch the surf when it came up and I happened to see people riding waves there. I got interested in the basics of how the wave was caught, how it was ridden.

==>CHUNK 3 -  time 44625-58809250 words: During one of the many storms that occurred through the winter months, A large number of surfboards would get washed out of the area underneath the surf club where they were stacked. They'd get smashed around on the rocks and they'd wash up along the beach. It was a common occurrence in those days because the board shed was well down underneath the surf club, slightly above sea level. I picked up a batted long board. It was about 18 feet. discovered that it either had no owner or the owner no longer wanted it from talking to the fellows in the surf club. I took it home, repaired it, got a set of wheels for wheeling it down to the surf and I started surfing. And the construction then? It was made entirely of wood. It was hollow. It had approximately half inch thick side timbers and was covered top and bottom with plywood over plywood, some frames and stringers made of possibly cedar or something like that. I rode those sort of boards for the next couple of years or so. until I saw the visiting Hawaiian Olympic team come to Manly on short bolster boards. Fellas like Tom's own and Greg Nile were riding 10 11 foot balsa boards covered with fiberglass I'd say this was I'm not exactly sure but I know it was the 56 Olympics and they would have appeared there late 56 maybe early 57 for all I know I'd probably been surfing

==>CHUNK 4 -  time 58985-69008200 words: for about either six months to a year when I did see them and it was a further year or two before bolster boards became available in Australia. So even though I've seen how much better you could ride a wave with the new shorter lighter bolster boards, It would have been a couple of years further on down the track before I would have actually got one. So at this stage you remember the freshwater surf club? No, not at all. At this stage, I was living at Manly, I was just a kid on the beach. One of, say, possibly two other kids who might have had surfboards. And surfing hadn't even begun other than in the surf clubs. I surfed in the Manly area until I slowly started moving with my parents to North Stain, then Queenscliff, then Harbourwood and then Kerl Kerl. So as the sport began to grow, as the population pressure started to grow, I slowly began to move northwards along the coast. So around about 58 or 59 I would have gone to the Harbour Beach or Freshwater Beach area and then I would have become a member of the Freshwater Surf Club.

==>CHUNK 5 -  time 69382-81738207 words: At that stage balsa boards were around about 10 feet in length, were well and truly established. This is going into 59. We were even looking at polystyrene boards, and a number of people were experimenting with them. Originally, Roger Kieran had made balsa boards up at Beacon Hill I bought a balsa board kit from him and built my first board while I was living in South Coco which is around about the 1958-1959 time when I just joined the surf club. And what was a balsa board kit? It consisted of a number of square balsa logs joined together, fiberglass resin and whatever else you needed to make the board. But around about the same time I was trying to make a polystyrene epoxy board. We progressed from the hollow boards of 16 to 18 feet down to hollow boards of around about 10 or 11 feet. My first professionally made hollow board was a Gordon Woods 14 foot board. My second professionally made board was a Bill Wallace 11 foot Malibu style hollow board. At that stage everybody in the manufacturing industry was having difficulty getting a hold of balsa wood to actually make a balsa board like the Hawaiians had brought with them.

==>CHUNK 6 -  time 81868-95041250 words: Since Roger had access to balsa, he was basically the first person producing short Hawaiian style balsa boards in Australia. He had two models. One was called the Okanui and the other one was called the Hellfire. That's Roger Kiran. Roger Kiran. He was also known as Roger Duck. But Kiran was the name that he became most widely known as. I don't know why he had two names. He was Roger Kiran, Roger Duck, and we called him the Duck, or he was often called Hellfire Duck. Roger was a character. and quite an innovator, somewhat so eccentric and because of his eccentricities he was dismissed at times as not being the The innovators at some other people thought they were, but Roger did come up with production bolster boards. Roger did come up with a removable fin and fin box system. And Roger sort of fiddled with anything and everything that looked like it might work. Just to say the other surfboard manufacturers were quite frustrated by not having bolster. So they persevered with the hollow plywood and wood construction. imitating the Hawaiian shapes, the best of these in my opinion. Well, some of the better ones were Joe Larkin who did Cedar and Ash, Bill Wallace who did Pacific Maple, Ash and some other nice wood versions, Gordon Woods, Barry Bennett, And at that stage, I think Greg McDonough was probably fooling around with polystyrene, trying to do in polystyrene and epoxy what the Hawaiians had done

==>CHUNK 7 -  time 95047-111300250 words: in balsa and fiberglass. However, I made my first shortboards out of balsa and I have been watching Greg McDonough working with polystyrene and epoxy and I eventually made one or two boards out of that material as did Scott Dillon and several other of the circled manufacturers of the time. But ultimately we all ended up using Bolsa. The structural integrity of Bolsa appeared to us at the time to be more desirable and the ease of use of polyester resins and fiberglass over epoxy appeared to be more desirable at that time. So when did you start business? Well, I'd filled around with repairing my long hollow boards, my short hollow boards. I'd made balsa boards and I'd made some epoxy storing boards for myself during the period that I was surfing at Kerl Kerl. and fresh water. And it wasn't until I left school that I got a job with Barry Bennett Surfboards, making fins, shaping wooden fins that I first sort of got into surfboard building professionally. Around about 59, surfing was basically well within the confines of the surf lifesaving club movement. And apart from the Hawaiians coming to Australia, we hadn't really seen much to indicate that surfing was anything other than a part of a surf club type life so I was in the freshwater surf club around about that period I just left school 1959 I had just gone to work for Barry Bennett making fins I eventually glass surfboards and then

==>CHUNK 8 -  time 111318-124582207 words: I shaped surfboards for Barry Bennett At that stage, surfing was starting to tickle the imaginations of people as something other than just a surf club style sport. Duke Kahonimo could come to Australia many years before and had sort of been the guest of the surf clubs in some ways and any mementos of his were left in surf clubs. So surfing stayed within the surf clubs up until about that point. Australia was changing, young people were starting to look for things to do. Surfing was a desirable thing to do for them in the sense that it seemed more interesting than just marching or rowing boats in surf clubs. Surf club men themselves were a unique breed of sort of hearty individuals. And all most of the surf club sports were team oriented, or orientated, whichever you like. Surfing itself was more for the individual and encouraged the individual to operate on a slightly more selfish basis in the ocean. So there was no lifestyle, subculture, glamour attached to surfing at that stage. It was just beginning to break out of the orthodox conservative surfboard type mould. Do you feel as though the music of the time was instrumental? We had rock and roll.

==>CHUNK 9 -  time 124724-139808203 words: It was catalytic in making the broader masses of people want to go surfing. But it was the early Bud Brown surfing films that indicated an alternative lifestyle. But Brown's surfing movies show Californians and Hawaiians living on the North Shore of Hawaii. In World War II, one set had living an alternative lifestyle. Not necessarily working too hard, but definitely surfing as hard as they could, riding all sorts of waves, building surfboards, living almost communally driving all cars for the sake of getting to surf spot to surf spot and generally you know stepping out of you know the popular mold of the times it looked like a fairly glamorous alternative when we first saw those Baprian movies and the waves they rode and the way they lived and it made myself and quite a few other Australians want to go to Hawaii in 1960 and a large group of us from the surf club and around the Manly area, bought boat tickets and sailed to Hawaii in 1960. There were people like Dave Jackman, Mickey McMunn, Buzzy Henry, Nipper Williams, Gordon Simpson, Bob Evans, A couple of surfers from Maroubra. Laurie Shored. Some other names, I don't have trouble remembering.

==>CHUNK 10 -  time 140045-153283200 words: We all sailed over there. This would be 960. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. Hang on, no, 16 years after Pearl Harbor. Hawaii was still a fairly frontier state of America at that time. Although I don't think it was a state. It could have been. Maybe it had just become a state. Or it was about to. And still a very sort of basic place. The 747s hadn't, it was a decade or so later before the 747s turned Hawaii into a tourist airport stop. So it was still a basic place. We got off the boat, rented cars, oh hang on we didn't rent cars, you couldn't rent cars that easily in those days we bought all the cars and took off for the North Shore and made our first Hawaiian surfing experience there were very few surfers out there at the time there was a relatively lonely place and we stumbled into the pioneer days of surfing, which were basically from 56 to around about 64. The original big wave riders were still there. The surfboard shapers were just beginning to become acknowledged and accomplished, or vice versa.

==>CHUNK 11 -  time 153499-167689222 words: And it was the first real exposure to, for me anyway, for design related to function, surfing equipment, making boards that would actually ride big waves. So who was the American names at Influencer? Well, at that stage there was George Downing building his own surfboards and there was a fellow called Pat Curran who built big wave boards that would actually ride big waves. And Curran ultimately was observed or influenced just about every other Shaper that has achieved any recognition. Since Curran's time, Dick Brewer watched Curran. Dick Brewer later influenced people like Rena Abalera, Al Chapman, Sam Hawke, Ben Ipper, and parish and many other shapers who came afterwards, whether they knew it or not, had actually picked up on the design principles that Pat Curran had pioneered at Waimea Bay. The early racing sailboards that Rick Nash, who was then a big wave rider, made for his son Robbie Nash, who is now many times world sailboarding champion, incorporated mostly Pat Curran's ideas into the sailboards and to this day a lot of people throughout the world don't realise that Curran was actually a major influence or force in making boards actually right ways. When it came to small waves there are a lot of people who could improvise but Curran actually got boards working in big waves.

==>CHUNK 12 -  time 167707-183316204 words: Downing was quite successful in the same field. But it appeared to me, and I could be wrong, that it was Curran who actually made surfboards ride waves from 20 to 30 feet. Downing, Curran, Buzzy Trent, Greg Noll, all of those people were present in that era and had the power and the presence to push the surfing thing along to the point where we came back to Australia really enthused about wanting to ride more waves, make more surfboards and develop a style that we could identify with. There were two major influences in getting Australian surfing going and possibly enthusiastic. One was Bud Brown's surfing movies. And two was the first two or three issues of the American Surfer magazine. One was a series of movies showing the sport and the lifestyle. And the other was a collection of stills and written material giving more depth to that sport and lifestyle. It was this strengthening of the sport and the lifestyle that ultimately led servers away from the surf club. We'd also gone to Hawaii to see the Makaha international contest. We'd seen movies of the huge waves that they had in the contest. So a lot of us had entered.

==>CHUNK 13 -  time 183464-195605216 words: Unfortunately that year the event was postponed so many times due to the small sale that none of us actually got to compete to the point of of any eliminations. So we got a good first taste for Hawaii. We stayed about two to three months during the Hawaiian winter. And we'd learnt to ride some bigger waves. We'd learnt to built some surfboards and we knew we'd have to do some serious preparation to come back there for the next year. We did come back to Australia and I'm not sure whether it was... Yes, it was. It was before that first trip that a fairly unique event did take place. It was a fellow called Dave Jackman riding the Queenscliff Bombora on a really huge wave day. And the reason it's well worth mentioning is that he took out a surfboard made by Joe Larkin, a big waveboard 11 feet long, and the waves were sufficiently big that no other person wanted to go out there and ride those waves. the person who did want to do it. And he was filmed at the time. He made a rather interesting surfing history. And that same board that Dave wrote of the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, I took to Hawaii with me on that first trip.

==>CHUNK 14 -  time 195825-207004209 words: I never wrote any waves, it's because the ones he did at the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, but That was the sort of person who went to Hawaii at the time. That was the sort of enthusiasm for big wave riding that fellas like Bob Pike, Nipper, Dave Jackman, Mickie McMahon, Gordon Simpson and these fellas took with them when they went to Hawaii on that very first trip. They did ride Wai-Ming-Bai. They did ride Sunset. I did want to ride in the car, but it never got big enough. There was a tremendous enthusiasm amongst a hardcore big wave riding group of those fellows that first year. It lasted over till the second year for quite a few of them. Others didn't go back. People like Pike did go back. I went back the following year. By that time, we could actually fly back by jet prop Canadian Pacific. I'm actually flying to Hawaii then. This is the beginning of our travel. The second year, I entered the Makaha contest and most of the other Australians were eliminated. Not in 61. 61. And it came down to the final day where the surf was relatively small. I was about the only Australian on the beach at the time.

==>CHUNK 15 -  time 207004-218400205 words: I think there might have been a few people in the crowd who were tourists or something. Waves are around about six feet, maximum, averaging about four feet. And I happen to come further inside. The wave riding area was spread over a great distance. In fact, distance was a major factor in scoring points, but I sort of cut the the course in half, so to speak, and came and sat inside and sort of abandoned the format that I sort of established for myself, which was only the same format that everybody else was using, distance, wave height and performance on the wave. I abandoned that and I just moved inside and caught more or less any wave that came along. There happened to be three California judges on the stand at the time, Dick Brewer, Buzzy Trent and Dewey Weber. The fact that they appreciated small waves since they were from California, combined with the fact that I had an ability to ride small waves, probably made the result come out the way it did. had it been a purely Hawaiian panel, I'm sure the result would have been different. The uproar caused by Hawaii, non-Hawaiian winning that event was completely unbelievable.

==>CHUNK 16 -  time 218404-233070220 words: Those three judges were never allowed to judge in the national contest again. The Hawaiian winter of 60, 61 was the, hang on, I've got it wrong again. The Hawaiian winter of 61, 62 was the first year we went to Hawaii. The Hawaiian winter of 62, 63 was the year that I won Minokaha contest. The newspapers in Honolulu at that time carried headlines of such things as Hawaiian surfing prestige wiped out. I actually had the odd Hawaiian chasing me. Not too many of them, luckily. Most of them took it pretty well. but they did cherish their surfing image and reputation rather strongly and they proved that years and years later when any sort of Australian tried to mouth off the Hawaiians were very quick to jump up and defend themselves individually as a group and as a state I came back to Hawaii after the Makaha. I came back to Australia after the Makaha contest. And the event had sort of caused a small ripple here, but it sort of, it grew. People sort of came to appreciate it more and more. Australia was a very different country than we were sort of a country that sort of looked down on itself but got pride out of any winning that any individuals or teams could achieve.

==>CHUNK 17 -  time 233107-248119201 words: So it took a while for people to realise that in Australia had actually won something and then once they did realise they've sort of got a bit excited about it. And the newspaper's made a small sensation out of it. And ironically, at that time, the popularity of surfing as something other than a sport, surfing as a subculture or a lifestyle, took off. The Californian experience was that once you had this formula of beach waves, music, clothes, cars, language, you had an explosive sort of situation and the same thing occurred here. Surfing as an alternative in sport lifestyle and everything that that encompasses clothing, language, music, dance, it just took off. Young people jumped into it and the numbers in the water just doubled, travelled, quadrupled and just kept going and going and going. surfing through 1963 and 1964 achieved sensational publicity. This led to the conflict between the board riders and the surf clubs. Well, surf clubs were fairly regimented in their beach sport. They marched in a line, they carried reels in a line, they carried flags in a line, they pulled a boat down the beach in a disciplined way. Surfers were the opposite.

==>CHUNK 18 -  time 248157-261035211 words: They were non-conformists. They only surfed when the waves were good. And they were doing it as individuals, not as teams. And the surf globes saw themselves threatened. And they, together with several of the local beach councils, they did everything they could to either suppress surfing or make surfing as difficult as possible for people to take part in. They tried banning it at beaches. They tried registering boards. surface or brand that is dangerous in and out of the water, louts, hooligans, as trying to hit people with their boards in the water. I think the most disgusting incident I saw was local councils registering surfboards in the belief that they could control them on behalf of the surf clubs and protect the public when in actual fact it was a revenue-raising exercise which ultimately became self-defeating since people refused to register their surfboards in the end. the financial burden of running the bureaucracy to control surfing and finally brought the whole project to a screaming halt. Today surfers still prize the old registration stickers just to show young people what the councils and surf clubs at the time had in mind and what they were about. and how people were actually so afraid of surfing at that time.

==>CHUNK 19 -  time 261402-276463202 words: So what about the, what happened after that when the association started? Well, surfing exploded in every direction. Products, contests, organisations, bands, music, It was obvious that we're going to be clubs and organizations. So I don't really remember quite how it occurred, but Ampol, the petroleum company, the petrol company, if you like, frustrated, wanted to get behind surfing and they wanted to run a world contest. a major event at Manley in 1964, in May 1964. We needed an organisation to run it, so the Australian Sufriders Association was formed as MPOL provided the financial backing. and flew individual surfers and others came independently from a variety of countries from around the world. And who were the Australians involved? Well, even in the organisation. At that stage there were a loose group of individuals, Bob Evans, Ross Kelly, John Wetzig and quite a few others who are Ray Young from Bondi and quite a few others who sort of put the association together slowly. I can't remember all the people who were wearing it. What were the ground rules? the association set up to promote surfing and to form rules for judging and set up eventually a world contest body.

==>CHUNK 20 -  time 276699-27725212 words: Bernard Midget Farrelly, tape one, side one, continuing, tape one, side two.


 * * * * * processChunksIntoSummaries HIERARCHY LENGTH 1 chunks.length 21:


neighbours
 Chunk 0 ------ 0.7410
 Chunk 1 0.7410 0.7493
 Chunk 2 0.7493 0.6872
 Chunk 3 0.6872 0.8216
 Chunk 4 0.8216 0.7210
 Chunk 5 0.7210 0.7800
 Chunk 6 0.7800 0.7524
 Chunk 7 0.7524 0.7367
 Chunk 8 0.7367 0.8178
 Chunk 9 0.8178 0.7240
 Chunk 10 0.7240 0.5798
 Chunk 11 0.5798 0.8381
 Chunk 12 0.8381 0.8069
 Chunk 13 0.8069 0.8866
 Chunk 14 0.8866 0.8038
 Chunk 15 0.8038 0.8016
 Chunk 16 0.8016 0.7666
 Chunk 17 0.7666 0.8105
 Chunk 18 0.8105 0.7914
 Chunk 19 0.7914 0.4647
 Chunk 20 0.4647 -----
created summary 0 - 4
I am Bernard Midget Farrelly. I live at 21 Palm Beach Road, Palm Beach, New South Wales. I'm recording this at my factory surf blinks at 11 West Street Book Vale on the 30th day of October 1984. It says here I am an Australian and international surf rider. What do that mean? The first title would be the 1963 Makaha International Serving. I forget what it was called exactly. I'd say Makaha, just call it Makaha International 1963. It was more or less the only international event that was considered a world title. before official world titles. After that, 1964, Australian and official world champion. The following year, Australian champion, 65, 1966, 6th place world championship. Oh, I left out the 65 World Championships, didn't make it to the final yet. 66 made it to 68, made it to equal first and then second on a count back. 1970 made it to second place. And as you've noted, Australian champion 64 and 65. A few... Uh, unusual contest titles. They mean, there's Bobby Brown Memorial. Contest at, uh, Sanctuary Beach, around the Canola area. And one that I thought was a little bit interesting, the small wave event. in Peru in 1960 or I believe also the Gunston 500 in 1970 at Durban South Africa a few other little small ones here and there but I think they're the main ones I was born in 1944 at Paddington. My parents were English originally from Ireland on my father's side Australian with an American father on my mother's side I have my earliest recollection of this surf going back to the age of six my uncle who was a Bondi lifesaver took me out on the surfboard when I was six years old at North Bondi I didn't enjoy it the first time I went out in fact I think I was terrified I didn't go near a surfboard until six years later when I was 12. In the meantime, my parents had taken me to live in a few different countries. I spent a year in Wales, I spent a year in Canada, and I spent a year in New Zealand. traveling to Canada and returning. I saw surfing at Waikiki and became slightly fascinated. What's the word did your father do? My father did anything and everything from running a photography business to running a a taxi to many other things, which I can't remember. What was the reason for this? He was dissatisfied with Australia, dissatisfied with the attitude of the people of this country at the time. thought that there had to be better places in the world. So he went looking further. So how did that affect your school? It was terrific because it ripped me out of school before I got too established or too entrenched in any sort of localisms. And so I went to school in different countries, was exposed to different cultures, was taught by women teachers, which was unthinkable in Australia at the time, went to coeducational school, which was totally unthinkable in Australia at the time. So it was a great advantage to travel from country to country and go to school there for one year. So when you finished, when did the serving start? I was living in Nairnly around about 1955, 1956. Less than 100 yards or so from the beach. I used to go and look at the waves because I travel by ship to different countries. I've sort of developed an appreciation for the ocean. I've been in fairly big storms in the North Atlantic and I've sort of gotten to like the ocean when I've gotten fairly sort of wild. I went down to Manly quite often to watch the surf when it came up and I happened to see people riding waves there. I got interested in the basics of how the wave was caught, how it was ridden. During one of the many storms that occurred through the winter months, A large number of surfboards would get washed out of the area underneath the surf club where they were stacked. They'd get smashed around on the rocks and they'd wash up along the beach. It was a common occurrence in those days because the board shed was well down underneath the surf club, slightly above sea level. I picked up a batted long board. It was about 18 feet. discovered that it either had no owner or the owner no longer wanted it from talking to the fellows in the surf club. I took it home, repaired it, got a set of wheels for wheeling it down to the surf and I started surfing. And the construction then? It was made entirely of wood. It was hollow. It had approximately half inch thick side timbers and was covered top and bottom with plywood over plywood, some frames and stringers made of possibly cedar or something like that. I rode those sort of boards for the next couple of years or so. until I saw the visiting Hawaiian Olympic team come to Manly on short bolster boards. Fellas like Tom's own and Greg Nile were riding 10 11 foot balsa boards covered with fiberglass I'd say this was I'm not exactly sure but I know it was the 56 Olympics and they would have appeared there late 56 maybe early 57 for all I know I'd probably been surfing for about either six months to a year when I did see them and it was a further year or two before bolster boards became available in Australia. So even though I've seen how much better you could ride a wave with the new shorter lighter bolster boards, It would have been a couple of years further on down the track before I would have actually got one. So at this stage you remember the freshwater surf club? No, not at all. At this stage, I was living at Manly, I was just a kid on the beach. One of, say, possibly two other kids who might have had surfboards. And surfing hadn't even begun other than in the surf clubs. I surfed in the Manly area until I slowly started moving with my parents to North Stain, then Queenscliff, then Harbourwood and then Kerl Kerl. So as the sport began to grow, as the population pressure started to grow, I slowly began to move northwards along the coast. So around about 58 or 59 I would have gone to the Harbour Beach or Freshwater Beach area and then I would have become a member of the Freshwater Surf Club.
created summary 5 - 9
At that stage balsa boards were around about 10 feet in length, were well and truly established. This is going into 59. We were even looking at polystyrene boards, and a number of people were experimenting with them. Originally, Roger Kieran had made balsa boards up at Beacon Hill I bought a balsa board kit from him and built my first board while I was living in South Coco which is around about the 1958-1959 time when I just joined the surf club. And what was a balsa board kit? It consisted of a number of square balsa logs joined together, fiberglass resin and whatever else you needed to make the board. But around about the same time I was trying to make a polystyrene epoxy board. We progressed from the hollow boards of 16 to 18 feet down to hollow boards of around about 10 or 11 feet. My first professionally made hollow board was a Gordon Woods 14 foot board. My second professionally made board was a Bill Wallace 11 foot Malibu style hollow board. At that stage everybody in the manufacturing industry was having difficulty getting a hold of balsa wood to actually make a balsa board like the Hawaiians had brought with them. Since Roger had access to balsa, he was basically the first person producing short Hawaiian style balsa boards in Australia. He had two models. One was called the Okanui and the other one was called the Hellfire. That's Roger Kiran. Roger Kiran. He was also known as Roger Duck. But Kiran was the name that he became most widely known as. I don't know why he had two names. He was Roger Kiran, Roger Duck, and we called him the Duck, or he was often called Hellfire Duck. Roger was a character. and quite an innovator, somewhat so eccentric and because of his eccentricities he was dismissed at times as not being the The innovators at some other people thought they were, but Roger did come up with production bolster boards. Roger did come up with a removable fin and fin box system. And Roger sort of fiddled with anything and everything that looked like it might work. Just to say the other surfboard manufacturers were quite frustrated by not having bolster. So they persevered with the hollow plywood and wood construction. imitating the Hawaiian shapes, the best of these in my opinion. Well, some of the better ones were Joe Larkin who did Cedar and Ash, Bill Wallace who did Pacific Maple, Ash and some other nice wood versions, Gordon Woods, Barry Bennett, And at that stage, I think Greg McDonough was probably fooling around with polystyrene, trying to do in polystyrene and epoxy what the Hawaiians had done in balsa and fiberglass. However, I made my first shortboards out of balsa and I have been watching Greg McDonough working with polystyrene and epoxy and I eventually made one or two boards out of that material as did Scott Dillon and several other of the circled manufacturers of the time. But ultimately we all ended up using Bolsa. The structural integrity of Bolsa appeared to us at the time to be more desirable and the ease of use of polyester resins and fiberglass over epoxy appeared to be more desirable at that time. So when did you start business? Well, I'd filled around with repairing my long hollow boards, my short hollow boards. I'd made balsa boards and I'd made some epoxy storing boards for myself during the period that I was surfing at Kerl Kerl. and fresh water. And it wasn't until I left school that I got a job with Barry Bennett Surfboards, making fins, shaping wooden fins that I first sort of got into surfboard building professionally. Around about 59, surfing was basically well within the confines of the surf lifesaving club movement. And apart from the Hawaiians coming to Australia, we hadn't really seen much to indicate that surfing was anything other than a part of a surf club type life so I was in the freshwater surf club around about that period I just left school 1959 I had just gone to work for Barry Bennett making fins I eventually glass surfboards and then I shaped surfboards for Barry Bennett At that stage, surfing was starting to tickle the imaginations of people as something other than just a surf club style sport. Duke Kahonimo could come to Australia many years before and had sort of been the guest of the surf clubs in some ways and any mementos of his were left in surf clubs. So surfing stayed within the surf clubs up until about that point. Australia was changing, young people were starting to look for things to do. Surfing was a desirable thing to do for them in the sense that it seemed more interesting than just marching or rowing boats in surf clubs. Surf club men themselves were a unique breed of sort of hearty individuals. And all most of the surf club sports were team oriented, or orientated, whichever you like. Surfing itself was more for the individual and encouraged the individual to operate on a slightly more selfish basis in the ocean. So there was no lifestyle, subculture, glamour attached to surfing at that stage. It was just beginning to break out of the orthodox conservative surfboard type mould. Do you feel as though the music of the time was instrumental? We had rock and roll. It was catalytic in making the broader masses of people want to go surfing. But it was the early Bud Brown surfing films that indicated an alternative lifestyle. But Brown's surfing movies show Californians and Hawaiians living on the North Shore of Hawaii. In World War II, one set had living an alternative lifestyle. Not necessarily working too hard, but definitely surfing as hard as they could, riding all sorts of waves, building surfboards, living almost communally driving all cars for the sake of getting to surf spot to surf spot and generally you know stepping out of you know the popular mold of the times it looked like a fairly glamorous alternative when we first saw those Baprian movies and the waves they rode and the way they lived and it made myself and quite a few other Australians want to go to Hawaii in 1960 and a large group of us from the surf club and around the Manly area, bought boat tickets and sailed to Hawaii in 1960. There were people like Dave Jackman, Mickey McMunn, Buzzy Henry, Nipper Williams, Gordon Simpson, Bob Evans, A couple of surfers from Maroubra. Laurie Shored. Some other names, I don't have trouble remembering.
created summary 10 - 10
We all sailed over there. This would be 960. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. Hang on, no, 16 years after Pearl Harbor. Hawaii was still a fairly frontier state of America at that time. Although I don't think it was a state. It could have been. Maybe it had just become a state. Or it was about to. And still a very sort of basic place. The 747s hadn't, it was a decade or so later before the 747s turned Hawaii into a tourist airport stop. So it was still a basic place. We got off the boat, rented cars, oh hang on we didn't rent cars, you couldn't rent cars that easily in those days we bought all the cars and took off for the North Shore and made our first Hawaiian surfing experience there were very few surfers out there at the time there was a relatively lonely place and we stumbled into the pioneer days of surfing, which were basically from 56 to around about 64. The original big wave riders were still there. The surfboard shapers were just beginning to become acknowledged and accomplished, or vice versa.
created summary 11 - 15
And it was the first real exposure to, for me anyway, for design related to function, surfing equipment, making boards that would actually ride big waves. So who was the American names at Influencer? Well, at that stage there was George Downing building his own surfboards and there was a fellow called Pat Curran who built big wave boards that would actually ride big waves. And Curran ultimately was observed or influenced just about every other Shaper that has achieved any recognition. Since Curran's time, Dick Brewer watched Curran. Dick Brewer later influenced people like Rena Abalera, Al Chapman, Sam Hawke, Ben Ipper, and parish and many other shapers who came afterwards, whether they knew it or not, had actually picked up on the design principles that Pat Curran had pioneered at Waimea Bay. The early racing sailboards that Rick Nash, who was then a big wave rider, made for his son Robbie Nash, who is now many times world sailboarding champion, incorporated mostly Pat Curran's ideas into the sailboards and to this day a lot of people throughout the world don't realise that Curran was actually a major influence or force in making boards actually right ways. When it came to small waves there are a lot of people who could improvise but Curran actually got boards working in big waves. Downing was quite successful in the same field. But it appeared to me, and I could be wrong, that it was Curran who actually made surfboards ride waves from 20 to 30 feet. Downing, Curran, Buzzy Trent, Greg Noll, all of those people were present in that era and had the power and the presence to push the surfing thing along to the point where we came back to Australia really enthused about wanting to ride more waves, make more surfboards and develop a style that we could identify with. There were two major influences in getting Australian surfing going and possibly enthusiastic. One was Bud Brown's surfing movies. And two was the first two or three issues of the American Surfer magazine. One was a series of movies showing the sport and the lifestyle. And the other was a collection of stills and written material giving more depth to that sport and lifestyle. It was this strengthening of the sport and the lifestyle that ultimately led servers away from the surf club. We'd also gone to Hawaii to see the Makaha international contest. We'd seen movies of the huge waves that they had in the contest. So a lot of us had entered. Unfortunately that year the event was postponed so many times due to the small sale that none of us actually got to compete to the point of of any eliminations. So we got a good first taste for Hawaii. We stayed about two to three months during the Hawaiian winter. And we'd learnt to ride some bigger waves. We'd learnt to built some surfboards and we knew we'd have to do some serious preparation to come back there for the next year. We did come back to Australia and I'm not sure whether it was... Yes, it was. It was before that first trip that a fairly unique event did take place. It was a fellow called Dave Jackman riding the Queenscliff Bombora on a really huge wave day. And the reason it's well worth mentioning is that he took out a surfboard made by Joe Larkin, a big waveboard 11 feet long, and the waves were sufficiently big that no other person wanted to go out there and ride those waves. the person who did want to do it. And he was filmed at the time. He made a rather interesting surfing history. And that same board that Dave wrote of the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, I took to Hawaii with me on that first trip. I never wrote any waves, it's because the ones he did at the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, but That was the sort of person who went to Hawaii at the time. That was the sort of enthusiasm for big wave riding that fellas like Bob Pike, Nipper, Dave Jackman, Mickie McMahon, Gordon Simpson and these fellas took with them when they went to Hawaii on that very first trip. They did ride Wai-Ming-Bai. They did ride Sunset. I did want to ride in the car, but it never got big enough. There was a tremendous enthusiasm amongst a hardcore big wave riding group of those fellows that first year. It lasted over till the second year for quite a few of them. Others didn't go back. People like Pike did go back. I went back the following year. By that time, we could actually fly back by jet prop Canadian Pacific. I'm actually flying to Hawaii then. This is the beginning of our travel. The second year, I entered the Makaha contest and most of the other Australians were eliminated. Not in 61. 61. And it came down to the final day where the surf was relatively small. I was about the only Australian on the beach at the time. I think there might have been a few people in the crowd who were tourists or something. Waves are around about six feet, maximum, averaging about four feet. And I happen to come further inside. The wave riding area was spread over a great distance. In fact, distance was a major factor in scoring points, but I sort of cut the the course in half, so to speak, and came and sat inside and sort of abandoned the format that I sort of established for myself, which was only the same format that everybody else was using, distance, wave height and performance on the wave. I abandoned that and I just moved inside and caught more or less any wave that came along. There happened to be three California judges on the stand at the time, Dick Brewer, Buzzy Trent and Dewey Weber. The fact that they appreciated small waves since they were from California, combined with the fact that I had an ability to ride small waves, probably made the result come out the way it did. had it been a purely Hawaiian panel, I'm sure the result would have been different. The uproar caused by Hawaii, non-Hawaiian winning that event was completely unbelievable.
created summary 16 - 19
Those three judges were never allowed to judge in the national contest again. The Hawaiian winter of 60, 61 was the, hang on, I've got it wrong again. The Hawaiian winter of 61, 62 was the first year we went to Hawaii. The Hawaiian winter of 62, 63 was the year that I won Minokaha contest. The newspapers in Honolulu at that time carried headlines of such things as Hawaiian surfing prestige wiped out. I actually had the odd Hawaiian chasing me. Not too many of them, luckily. Most of them took it pretty well. but they did cherish their surfing image and reputation rather strongly and they proved that years and years later when any sort of Australian tried to mouth off the Hawaiians were very quick to jump up and defend themselves individually as a group and as a state I came back to Hawaii after the Makaha. I came back to Australia after the Makaha contest. And the event had sort of caused a small ripple here, but it sort of, it grew. People sort of came to appreciate it more and more. Australia was a very different country than we were sort of a country that sort of looked down on itself but got pride out of any winning that any individuals or teams could achieve. So it took a while for people to realise that in Australia had actually won something and then once they did realise they've sort of got a bit excited about it. And the newspaper's made a small sensation out of it. And ironically, at that time, the popularity of surfing as something other than a sport, surfing as a subculture or a lifestyle, took off. The Californian experience was that once you had this formula of beach waves, music, clothes, cars, language, you had an explosive sort of situation and the same thing occurred here. Surfing as an alternative in sport lifestyle and everything that that encompasses clothing, language, music, dance, it just took off. Young people jumped into it and the numbers in the water just doubled, travelled, quadrupled and just kept going and going and going. surfing through 1963 and 1964 achieved sensational publicity. This led to the conflict between the board riders and the surf clubs. Well, surf clubs were fairly regimented in their beach sport. They marched in a line, they carried reels in a line, they carried flags in a line, they pulled a boat down the beach in a disciplined way. Surfers were the opposite. They were non-conformists. They only surfed when the waves were good. And they were doing it as individuals, not as teams. And the surf globes saw themselves threatened. And they, together with several of the local beach councils, they did everything they could to either suppress surfing or make surfing as difficult as possible for people to take part in. They tried banning it at beaches. They tried registering boards. surface or brand that is dangerous in and out of the water, louts, hooligans, as trying to hit people with their boards in the water. I think the most disgusting incident I saw was local councils registering surfboards in the belief that they could control them on behalf of the surf clubs and protect the public when in actual fact it was a revenue-raising exercise which ultimately became self-defeating since people refused to register their surfboards in the end. the financial burden of running the bureaucracy to control surfing and finally brought the whole project to a screaming halt. Today surfers still prize the old registration stickers just to show young people what the councils and surf clubs at the time had in mind and what they were about. and how people were actually so afraid of surfing at that time. So what about the, what happened after that when the association started? Well, surfing exploded in every direction. Products, contests, organisations, bands, music, It was obvious that we're going to be clubs and organizations. So I don't really remember quite how it occurred, but Ampol, the petroleum company, the petrol company, if you like, frustrated, wanted to get behind surfing and they wanted to run a world contest. a major event at Manley in 1964, in May 1964. We needed an organisation to run it, so the Australian Sufriders Association was formed as MPOL provided the financial backing. and flew individual surfers and others came independently from a variety of countries from around the world. And who were the Australians involved? Well, even in the organisation. At that stage there were a loose group of individuals, Bob Evans, Ross Kelly, John Wetzig and quite a few others who are Ray Young from Bondi and quite a few others who sort of put the association together slowly. I can't remember all the people who were wearing it. What were the ground rules? the association set up to promote surfing and to form rules for judging and set up eventually a world contest body.
created final summary 20 - 20
========= reduced to 6 summaries 

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 0 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 0 of 6
 TEXT IN: I am Bernard Midget Farrelly. I live at 21 Palm Beach Road, Palm Beach, New South Wales. I'm recording this at my factory surf blinks at 11 West Street Book Vale on the 30th day of October 1984. It says here I am an Australian and international surf rider. What do that mean? The first title would be the 1963 Makaha International Serving. I forget what it was called exactly. I'd say Makaha, just call it Makaha International 1963. It was more or less the only international event that was considered a world title. before official world titles. After that, 1964, Australian and official world champion. The following year, Australian champion, 65, 1966, 6th place world championship. Oh, I left out the 65 World Championships, didn't make it to the final yet. 66 made it to 68, made it to equal first and then second on a count back. 1970 made it to second place. And as you've noted, Australian champion 64 and 65. A few... Uh, unusual contest titles. They mean, there's Bobby Brown Memorial. Contest at, uh, Sanctuary Beach, around the Canola area. And one that I thought was a little bit interesting, the small wave event. in Peru in 1960 or I believe also the Gunston 500 in 1970 at Durban South Africa a few other little small ones here and there but I think they're the main ones I was born in 1944 at Paddington. My parents were English originally from Ireland on my father's side Australian with an American father on my mother's side I have my earliest recollection of this surf going back to the age of six my uncle who was a Bondi lifesaver took me out on the surfboard when I was six years old at North Bondi I didn't enjoy it the first time I went out in fact I think I was terrified I didn't go near a surfboard until six years later when I was 12. In the meantime, my parents had taken me to live in a few different countries. I spent a year in Wales, I spent a year in Canada, and I spent a year in New Zealand. traveling to Canada and returning. I saw surfing at Waikiki and became slightly fascinated. What's the word did your father do? My father did anything and everything from running a photography business to running a a taxi to many other things, which I can't remember. What was the reason for this? He was dissatisfied with Australia, dissatisfied with the attitude of the people of this country at the time. thought that there had to be better places in the world. So he went looking further. So how did that affect your school? It was terrific because it ripped me out of school before I got too established or too entrenched in any sort of localisms. And so I went to school in different countries, was exposed to different cultures, was taught by women teachers, which was unthinkable in Australia at the time, went to coeducational school, which was totally unthinkable in Australia at the time. So it was a great advantage to travel from country to country and go to school there for one year. So when you finished, when did the serving start? I was living in Nairnly around about 1955, 1956. Less than 100 yards or so from the beach. I used to go and look at the waves because I travel by ship to different countries. I've sort of developed an appreciation for the ocean. I've been in fairly big storms in the North Atlantic and I've sort of gotten to like the ocean when I've gotten fairly sort of wild. I went down to Manly quite often to watch the surf when it came up and I happened to see people riding waves there. I got interested in the basics of how the wave was caught, how it was ridden. During one of the many storms that occurred through the winter months, A large number of surfboards would get washed out of the area underneath the surf club where they were stacked. They'd get smashed around on the rocks and they'd wash up along the beach. It was a common occurrence in those days because the board shed was well down underneath the surf club, slightly above sea level. I picked up a batted long board. It was about 18 feet. discovered that it either had no owner or the owner no longer wanted it from talking to the fellows in the surf club. I took it home, repaired it, got a set of wheels for wheeling it down to the surf and I started surfing. And the construction then? It was made entirely of wood. It was hollow. It had approximately half inch thick side timbers and was covered top and bottom with plywood over plywood, some frames and stringers made of possibly cedar or something like that. I rode those sort of boards for the next couple of years or so. until I saw the visiting Hawaiian Olympic team come to Manly on short bolster boards. Fellas like Tom's own and Greg Nile were riding 10 11 foot balsa boards covered with fiberglass I'd say this was I'm not exactly sure but I know it was the 56 Olympics and they would have appeared there late 56 maybe early 57 for all I know I'd probably been surfing for about either six months to a year when I did see them and it was a further year or two before bolster boards became available in Australia. So even though I've seen how much better you could ride a wave with the new shorter lighter bolster boards, It would have been a couple of years further on down the track before I would have actually got one. So at this stage you remember the freshwater surf club? No, not at all. At this stage, I was living at Manly, I was just a kid on the beach. One of, say, possibly two other kids who might have had surfboards. And surfing hadn't even begun other than in the surf clubs. I surfed in the Manly area until I slowly started moving with my parents to North Stain, then Queenscliff, then Harbourwood and then Kerl Kerl. So as the sport began to grow, as the population pressure started to grow, I slowly began to move northwards along the coast. So around about 58 or 59 I would have gone to the Harbour Beach or Freshwater Beach area and then I would have become a member of the Freshwater Surf Club.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly, an Australian and international surf rider, recounts his surfing journey starting from his early childhood experiences at North Bondi, where he was initially terrified of surfing. His father's dissatisfaction with Australia led the family to live in Wales, Canada, and New Zealand, exposing Bernard to different cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, Bernard began surfing using a long wooden board found on the beach. He later transitioned to shorter bolster boards after witnessing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Bernard's surfing career spans from the 1963 Makaha International to his Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, with notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. His journey reflects a growing passion for surfing, influenced by international exposure and the evolution of surfboard technology.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 1 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
editedTranscript got id nla.obj-203494363
GOT JSON BODY:{"speakers":[{"id":0,"name":"Bernard \"Midget\" Farrelly"}],"transcript":{"chunks":[{"speaker":0,"validated":0,"content":[{"s":238,"d":40,"t":"Bernard"},{"s":288,"d":34,"t":"Midget"},{"s":332,"d":58,"t":"Farrelly,"},{"s":432,"d":66,"t":"continuing"},{"s":508,"d":26,"t":"take"},{"s":550,"d":22,"t":"one,"},{"s":574,"d":38,"t":"side"},{"s":622,"d":36,"t":"two."},{"s":1081,"d":16,"t":"At"},{"s":1099,"d":212,"t":"the"},{"s":1313,"d":42,"t":"first"},{"s":1359,"d":20,"t":"law"},{"s":1383,"d":52,"t":"co ...
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
 id nla.obj-203494642 chunks: 86
   speakers: [{"id":0,"name":"Bernard \"Midget\" Farrelly"}]
Session nla.obj-203494642 contents length: 26887
IN storeSessionAndQueueSummarisation  interviewDoc:{"interviewId":"nla.obj-203494363","title":"Bernard \"Midget\" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts.","collection":["Other"],"loadedBy":"kfitch","loadedDate":"2024-06-07T07:01:08.464Z","interviewee":["Farrelly, Bernard \"Midget\""],"interviewer":["recording]., Neil Bennetts [sound"],"sponsor":["National Library of Australia","Oral History and Folklore"],"yyyymmdd":"Unknown","summary":"\nBernard \"Midget\" Farrelly recounts his surfing career, starting with wooden boards in Sydney and transitioning to short bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. He competed in the 1960s and moved to Freshwater Surf Club. Farrelly discusses the shift in surfing culture, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, leading to a broader public interest. Inspired by these films, he and his peers traveled to Hawaii in 1960, seeking the lifestyle depicted. Farrelly talks about his first functional surfboard design and the impact of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing. ...
session.yyyymmdd:Unknown interviewDoc.yyyymmdd:Unknown
QUEUING INTERVIEW SUMMARY GENERATION ---
Deleting solr core audioReindexQueue  query: docid:"**INTERVIEW**nla.obj-203494363"
solrDelete  query: docid:"**INTERVIEW**nla.obj-203494363" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":0}}
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 1 of 6
 TEXT IN: At that stage balsa boards were around about 10 feet in length, were well and truly established. This is going into 59. We were even looking at polystyrene boards, and a number of people were experimenting with them. Originally, Roger Kieran had made balsa boards up at Beacon Hill I bought a balsa board kit from him and built my first board while I was living in South Coco which is around about the 1958-1959 time when I just joined the surf club. And what was a balsa board kit? It consisted of a number of square balsa logs joined together, fiberglass resin and whatever else you needed to make the board. But around about the same time I was trying to make a polystyrene epoxy board. We progressed from the hollow boards of 16 to 18 feet down to hollow boards of around about 10 or 11 feet. My first professionally made hollow board was a Gordon Woods 14 foot board. My second professionally made board was a Bill Wallace 11 foot Malibu style hollow board. At that stage everybody in the manufacturing industry was having difficulty getting a hold of balsa wood to actually make a balsa board like the Hawaiians had brought with them. Since Roger had access to balsa, he was basically the first person producing short Hawaiian style balsa boards in Australia. He had two models. One was called the Okanui and the other one was called the Hellfire. That's Roger Kiran. Roger Kiran. He was also known as Roger Duck. But Kiran was the name that he became most widely known as. I don't know why he had two names. He was Roger Kiran, Roger Duck, and we called him the Duck, or he was often called Hellfire Duck. Roger was a character. and quite an innovator, somewhat so eccentric and because of his eccentricities he was dismissed at times as not being the The innovators at some other people thought they were, but Roger did come up with production bolster boards. Roger did come up with a removable fin and fin box system. And Roger sort of fiddled with anything and everything that looked like it might work. Just to say the other surfboard manufacturers were quite frustrated by not having bolster. So they persevered with the hollow plywood and wood construction. imitating the Hawaiian shapes, the best of these in my opinion. Well, some of the better ones were Joe Larkin who did Cedar and Ash, Bill Wallace who did Pacific Maple, Ash and some other nice wood versions, Gordon Woods, Barry Bennett, And at that stage, I think Greg McDonough was probably fooling around with polystyrene, trying to do in polystyrene and epoxy what the Hawaiians had done in balsa and fiberglass. However, I made my first shortboards out of balsa and I have been watching Greg McDonough working with polystyrene and epoxy and I eventually made one or two boards out of that material as did Scott Dillon and several other of the circled manufacturers of the time. But ultimately we all ended up using Bolsa. The structural integrity of Bolsa appeared to us at the time to be more desirable and the ease of use of polyester resins and fiberglass over epoxy appeared to be more desirable at that time. So when did you start business? Well, I'd filled around with repairing my long hollow boards, my short hollow boards. I'd made balsa boards and I'd made some epoxy storing boards for myself during the period that I was surfing at Kerl Kerl. and fresh water. And it wasn't until I left school that I got a job with Barry Bennett Surfboards, making fins, shaping wooden fins that I first sort of got into surfboard building professionally. Around about 59, surfing was basically well within the confines of the surf lifesaving club movement. And apart from the Hawaiians coming to Australia, we hadn't really seen much to indicate that surfing was anything other than a part of a surf club type life so I was in the freshwater surf club around about that period I just left school 1959 I had just gone to work for Barry Bennett making fins I eventually glass surfboards and then I shaped surfboards for Barry Bennett At that stage, surfing was starting to tickle the imaginations of people as something other than just a surf club style sport. Duke Kahonimo could come to Australia many years before and had sort of been the guest of the surf clubs in some ways and any mementos of his were left in surf clubs. So surfing stayed within the surf clubs up until about that point. Australia was changing, young people were starting to look for things to do. Surfing was a desirable thing to do for them in the sense that it seemed more interesting than just marching or rowing boats in surf clubs. Surf club men themselves were a unique breed of sort of hearty individuals. And all most of the surf club sports were team oriented, or orientated, whichever you like. Surfing itself was more for the individual and encouraged the individual to operate on a slightly more selfish basis in the ocean. So there was no lifestyle, subculture, glamour attached to surfing at that stage. It was just beginning to break out of the orthodox conservative surfboard type mould. Do you feel as though the music of the time was instrumental? We had rock and roll. It was catalytic in making the broader masses of people want to go surfing. But it was the early Bud Brown surfing films that indicated an alternative lifestyle. But Brown's surfing movies show Californians and Hawaiians living on the North Shore of Hawaii. In World War II, one set had living an alternative lifestyle. Not necessarily working too hard, but definitely surfing as hard as they could, riding all sorts of waves, building surfboards, living almost communally driving all cars for the sake of getting to surf spot to surf spot and generally you know stepping out of you know the popular mold of the times it looked like a fairly glamorous alternative when we first saw those Baprian movies and the waves they rode and the way they lived and it made myself and quite a few other Australians want to go to Hawaii in 1960 and a large group of us from the surf club and around the Manly area, bought boat tickets and sailed to Hawaii in 1960. There were people like Dave Jackman, Mickey McMunn, Buzzy Henry, Nipper Williams, Gordon Simpson, Bob Evans, A couple of surfers from Maroubra. Laurie Shored. Some other names, I don't have trouble remembering.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 2 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 2 of 6
 TEXT IN: We all sailed over there. This would be 960. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. Hang on, no, 16 years after Pearl Harbor. Hawaii was still a fairly frontier state of America at that time. Although I don't think it was a state. It could have been. Maybe it had just become a state. Or it was about to. And still a very sort of basic place. The 747s hadn't, it was a decade or so later before the 747s turned Hawaii into a tourist airport stop. So it was still a basic place. We got off the boat, rented cars, oh hang on we didn't rent cars, you couldn't rent cars that easily in those days we bought all the cars and took off for the North Shore and made our first Hawaiian surfing experience there were very few surfers out there at the time there was a relatively lonely place and we stumbled into the pioneer days of surfing, which were basically from 56 to around about 64. The original big wave riders were still there. The surfboard shapers were just beginning to become acknowledged and accomplished, or vice versa.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his journey to Hawaii six years after Pearl Harbor, noting the island's frontier status and the absence of rental cars, leading to the purchase of vehicles for exploration. They experienced Hawaii's early surfing culture, encountering pioneering surfers and shapers from 1956 to around 1964, a time when the island was still developing as a tourist destination with the introduction of the 747s.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 3 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 3 of 6
 TEXT IN: And it was the first real exposure to, for me anyway, for design related to function, surfing equipment, making boards that would actually ride big waves. So who was the American names at Influencer? Well, at that stage there was George Downing building his own surfboards and there was a fellow called Pat Curran who built big wave boards that would actually ride big waves. And Curran ultimately was observed or influenced just about every other Shaper that has achieved any recognition. Since Curran's time, Dick Brewer watched Curran. Dick Brewer later influenced people like Rena Abalera, Al Chapman, Sam Hawke, Ben Ipper, and parish and many other shapers who came afterwards, whether they knew it or not, had actually picked up on the design principles that Pat Curran had pioneered at Waimea Bay. The early racing sailboards that Rick Nash, who was then a big wave rider, made for his son Robbie Nash, who is now many times world sailboarding champion, incorporated mostly Pat Curran's ideas into the sailboards and to this day a lot of people throughout the world don't realise that Curran was actually a major influence or force in making boards actually right ways. When it came to small waves there are a lot of people who could improvise but Curran actually got boards working in big waves. Downing was quite successful in the same field. But it appeared to me, and I could be wrong, that it was Curran who actually made surfboards ride waves from 20 to 30 feet. Downing, Curran, Buzzy Trent, Greg Noll, all of those people were present in that era and had the power and the presence to push the surfing thing along to the point where we came back to Australia really enthused about wanting to ride more waves, make more surfboards and develop a style that we could identify with. There were two major influences in getting Australian surfing going and possibly enthusiastic. One was Bud Brown's surfing movies. And two was the first two or three issues of the American Surfer magazine. One was a series of movies showing the sport and the lifestyle. And the other was a collection of stills and written material giving more depth to that sport and lifestyle. It was this strengthening of the sport and the lifestyle that ultimately led servers away from the surf club. We'd also gone to Hawaii to see the Makaha international contest. We'd seen movies of the huge waves that they had in the contest. So a lot of us had entered. Unfortunately that year the event was postponed so many times due to the small sale that none of us actually got to compete to the point of of any eliminations. So we got a good first taste for Hawaii. We stayed about two to three months during the Hawaiian winter. And we'd learnt to ride some bigger waves. We'd learnt to built some surfboards and we knew we'd have to do some serious preparation to come back there for the next year. We did come back to Australia and I'm not sure whether it was... Yes, it was. It was before that first trip that a fairly unique event did take place. It was a fellow called Dave Jackman riding the Queenscliff Bombora on a really huge wave day. And the reason it's well worth mentioning is that he took out a surfboard made by Joe Larkin, a big waveboard 11 feet long, and the waves were sufficiently big that no other person wanted to go out there and ride those waves. the person who did want to do it. And he was filmed at the time. He made a rather interesting surfing history. And that same board that Dave wrote of the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, I took to Hawaii with me on that first trip. I never wrote any waves, it's because the ones he did at the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, but That was the sort of person who went to Hawaii at the time. That was the sort of enthusiasm for big wave riding that fellas like Bob Pike, Nipper, Dave Jackman, Mickie McMahon, Gordon Simpson and these fellas took with them when they went to Hawaii on that very first trip. They did ride Wai-Ming-Bai. They did ride Sunset. I did want to ride in the car, but it never got big enough. There was a tremendous enthusiasm amongst a hardcore big wave riding group of those fellows that first year. It lasted over till the second year for quite a few of them. Others didn't go back. People like Pike did go back. I went back the following year. By that time, we could actually fly back by jet prop Canadian Pacific. I'm actually flying to Hawaii then. This is the beginning of our travel. The second year, I entered the Makaha contest and most of the other Australians were eliminated. Not in 61. 61. And it came down to the final day where the surf was relatively small. I was about the only Australian on the beach at the time. I think there might have been a few people in the crowd who were tourists or something. Waves are around about six feet, maximum, averaging about four feet. And I happen to come further inside. The wave riding area was spread over a great distance. In fact, distance was a major factor in scoring points, but I sort of cut the the course in half, so to speak, and came and sat inside and sort of abandoned the format that I sort of established for myself, which was only the same format that everybody else was using, distance, wave height and performance on the wave. I abandoned that and I just moved inside and caught more or less any wave that came along. There happened to be three California judges on the stand at the time, Dick Brewer, Buzzy Trent and Dewey Weber. The fact that they appreciated small waves since they were from California, combined with the fact that I had an ability to ride small waves, probably made the result come out the way it did. had it been a purely Hawaiian panel, I'm sure the result would have been different. The uproar caused by Hawaii, non-Hawaiian winning that event was completely unbelievable.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his first exposure to functional surfboard design during an interview with Neil Bennetts. He recounts the influence of American shapers like George Downing and Pat Curran, who pioneered big wave surfboard design. Curran's designs were adopted by other shapers and influenced the development of surfboards that could ride big waves. Farrelly also mentions the impact of Bud Brown's surfing movies and the American Surfer magazine on Australian surfing enthusiasm. He describes a unique event where Dave Jackman rode a big wave at Queenscliff Bombora on a surfboard made by Joe Larkin. Farrelly and other Australian surfers, including Bob Pike and Mickie McMahon, traveled to Hawaii for the Makaha contest, where Farrelly entered and won, despite the waves being smaller than expected. The victory caused controversy due to the non-Hawaiian winning, highlighting the influence of California judges who appreciated small wave riding. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there marked the beginning of his travel and deepened his passion for big wave surfing.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 4 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 4 of 6
 TEXT IN: Those three judges were never allowed to judge in the national contest again. The Hawaiian winter of 60, 61 was the, hang on, I've got it wrong again. The Hawaiian winter of 61, 62 was the first year we went to Hawaii. The Hawaiian winter of 62, 63 was the year that I won Minokaha contest. The newspapers in Honolulu at that time carried headlines of such things as Hawaiian surfing prestige wiped out. I actually had the odd Hawaiian chasing me. Not too many of them, luckily. Most of them took it pretty well. but they did cherish their surfing image and reputation rather strongly and they proved that years and years later when any sort of Australian tried to mouth off the Hawaiians were very quick to jump up and defend themselves individually as a group and as a state I came back to Hawaii after the Makaha. I came back to Australia after the Makaha contest. And the event had sort of caused a small ripple here, but it sort of, it grew. People sort of came to appreciate it more and more. Australia was a very different country than we were sort of a country that sort of looked down on itself but got pride out of any winning that any individuals or teams could achieve. So it took a while for people to realise that in Australia had actually won something and then once they did realise they've sort of got a bit excited about it. And the newspaper's made a small sensation out of it. And ironically, at that time, the popularity of surfing as something other than a sport, surfing as a subculture or a lifestyle, took off. The Californian experience was that once you had this formula of beach waves, music, clothes, cars, language, you had an explosive sort of situation and the same thing occurred here. Surfing as an alternative in sport lifestyle and everything that that encompasses clothing, language, music, dance, it just took off. Young people jumped into it and the numbers in the water just doubled, travelled, quadrupled and just kept going and going and going. surfing through 1963 and 1964 achieved sensational publicity. This led to the conflict between the board riders and the surf clubs. Well, surf clubs were fairly regimented in their beach sport. They marched in a line, they carried reels in a line, they carried flags in a line, they pulled a boat down the beach in a disciplined way. Surfers were the opposite. They were non-conformists. They only surfed when the waves were good. And they were doing it as individuals, not as teams. And the surf globes saw themselves threatened. And they, together with several of the local beach councils, they did everything they could to either suppress surfing or make surfing as difficult as possible for people to take part in. They tried banning it at beaches. They tried registering boards. surface or brand that is dangerous in and out of the water, louts, hooligans, as trying to hit people with their boards in the water. I think the most disgusting incident I saw was local councils registering surfboards in the belief that they could control them on behalf of the surf clubs and protect the public when in actual fact it was a revenue-raising exercise which ultimately became self-defeating since people refused to register their surfboards in the end. the financial burden of running the bureaucracy to control surfing and finally brought the whole project to a screaming halt. Today surfers still prize the old registration stickers just to show young people what the councils and surf clubs at the time had in mind and what they were about. and how people were actually so afraid of surfing at that time. So what about the, what happened after that when the association started? Well, surfing exploded in every direction. Products, contests, organisations, bands, music, It was obvious that we're going to be clubs and organizations. So I don't really remember quite how it occurred, but Ampol, the petroleum company, the petrol company, if you like, frustrated, wanted to get behind surfing and they wanted to run a world contest. a major event at Manley in 1964, in May 1964. We needed an organisation to run it, so the Australian Sufriders Association was formed as MPOL provided the financial backing. and flew individual surfers and others came independently from a variety of countries from around the world. And who were the Australians involved? Well, even in the organisation. At that stage there were a loose group of individuals, Bob Evans, Ross Kelly, John Wetzig and quite a few others who are Ray Young from Bondi and quite a few others who sort of put the association together slowly. I can't remember all the people who were wearing it. What were the ground rules? the association set up to promote surfing and to form rules for judging and set up eventually a world contest body.
 SUMMARY: In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing in Hawaii and its impact on Australia. He mentions the Hawaiian winters of 61-62 and 62-63, during which he won the Minokaha contest and experienced a surge in surfing popularity. Farrelly notes that the event caused a ripple effect in Australia, leading to a growing appreciation and excitement for surfing. He describes the conflict between board riders and surf clubs, with the latter attempting to suppress surfing through various means, including banning it at beaches and registering surfboards. Farrelly also discusses the formation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, which was supported by Ampol, a petroleum company. The association aimed to promote surfing and organize a world contest, bringing together surfers from around the world. Farrelly reflects on the ground rules set by the association and the eventual establishment of a world contest body.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 5 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 12 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 5 of 6
 TEXT IN: Bernard Midget Farrelly, tape one, side one, continuing, tape one, side two.
 SUMMARY: Bernard Midget Farrelly interview on tape sides one and two.


 * * * * * processChunksIntoSummaries HIERARCHY LENGTH 2 chunks.length 6:


neighbours
 Chunk 0 ------ 0.9040
 Chunk 1 0.9040 0.8067
 Chunk 2 0.8067 0.8181
 Chunk 3 0.8181 0.8978
 Chunk 4 0.8978 0.6600
 Chunk 5 0.6600 -----
created summary 0 - 3
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly, an Australian and international surf rider, recounts his surfing journey starting from his early childhood experiences at North Bondi, where he was initially terrified of surfing. His father's dissatisfaction with Australia led the family to live in Wales, Canada, and New Zealand, exposing Bernard to different cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, Bernard began surfing using a long wooden board found on the beach. He later transitioned to shorter bolster boards after witnessing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Bernard's surfing career spans from the 1963 Makaha International to his Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, with notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. His journey reflects a growing passion for surfing, influenced by international exposure and the evolution of surfboard technology. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his journey to Hawaii six years after Pearl Harbor, noting the island's frontier status and the absence of rental cars, leading to the purchase of vehicles for exploration. They experienced Hawaii's early surfing culture, encountering pioneering surfers and shapers from 1956 to around 1964, a time when the island was still developing as a tourist destination with the introduction of the 747s. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his first exposure to functional surfboard design during an interview with Neil Bennetts. He recounts the influence of American shapers like George Downing and Pat Curran, who pioneered big wave surfboard design. Curran's designs were adopted by other shapers and influenced the development of surfboards that could ride big waves. Farrelly also mentions the impact of Bud Brown's surfing movies and the American Surfer magazine on Australian surfing enthusiasm. He describes a unique event where Dave Jackman rode a big wave at Queenscliff Bombora on a surfboard made by Joe Larkin. Farrelly and other Australian surfers, including Bob Pike and Mickie McMahon, traveled to Hawaii for the Makaha contest, where Farrelly entered and won, despite the waves being smaller than expected. The victory caused controversy due to the non-Hawaiian winning, highlighting the influence of California judges who appreciated small wave riding. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there marked the beginning of his travel and deepened his passion for big wave surfing.
created final summary 4 - 5
========= reduced to 2 summaries 

getSummary bottomLevel false seq 0 instructions: Summarise the provided description of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided text.   Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the content without any further commentary. 
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 0 of 2
 TEXT IN: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly, an Australian and international surf rider, recounts his surfing journey starting from his early childhood experiences at North Bondi, where he was initially terrified of surfing. His father's dissatisfaction with Australia led the family to live in Wales, Canada, and New Zealand, exposing Bernard to different cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, Bernard began surfing using a long wooden board found on the beach. He later transitioned to shorter bolster boards after witnessing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Bernard's surfing career spans from the 1963 Makaha International to his Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, with notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. His journey reflects a growing passion for surfing, influenced by international exposure and the evolution of surfboard technology. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his journey to Hawaii six years after Pearl Harbor, noting the island's frontier status and the absence of rental cars, leading to the purchase of vehicles for exploration. They experienced Hawaii's early surfing culture, encountering pioneering surfers and shapers from 1956 to around 1964, a time when the island was still developing as a tourist destination with the introduction of the 747s. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his first exposure to functional surfboard design during an interview with Neil Bennetts. He recounts the influence of American shapers like George Downing and Pat Curran, who pioneered big wave surfboard design. Curran's designs were adopted by other shapers and influenced the development of surfboards that could ride big waves. Farrelly also mentions the impact of Bud Brown's surfing movies and the American Surfer magazine on Australian surfing enthusiasm. He describes a unique event where Dave Jackman rode a big wave at Queenscliff Bombora on a surfboard made by Joe Larkin. Farrelly and other Australian surfers, including Bob Pike and Mickie McMahon, traveled to Hawaii for the Makaha contest, where Farrelly entered and won, despite the waves being smaller than expected. The victory caused controversy due to the non-Hawaiian winning, highlighting the influence of California judges who appreciated small wave riding. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there marked the beginning of his travel and deepened his passion for big wave surfing.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.

getSummary bottomLevel false seq 1 instructions: Summarise the provided description of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 161 words. Base the summary only on the provided text.   Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the content without any further commentary. 
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 1 of 2
 TEXT IN: In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing in Hawaii and its impact on Australia. He mentions the Hawaiian winters of 61-62 and 62-63, during which he won the Minokaha contest and experienced a surge in surfing popularity. Farrelly notes that the event caused a ripple effect in Australia, leading to a growing appreciation and excitement for surfing. He describes the conflict between board riders and surf clubs, with the latter attempting to suppress surfing through various means, including banning it at beaches and registering surfboards. Farrelly also discusses the formation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, which was supported by Ampol, a petroleum company. The association aimed to promote surfing and organize a world contest, bringing together surfers from around the world. Farrelly reflects on the ground rules set by the association and the eventual establishment of a world contest body. Bernard Midget Farrelly interview on tape sides one and two.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii during the winters of 61-62 and 62-63, highlighting his victory in the Minokaha contest and the subsequent popularity surge in Australia. He addresses the tension between board riders and surf clubs, which led to attempts to ban surfing and register surfboards. Farrelly also talks about the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, supported by Ampol, which sought to organize a world surfing contest. He reflects on the association's ground rules and the eventual formation of a world contest body. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to institutionalize the sport.


 * * * * * processChunksIntoSummaries HIERARCHY LENGTH 3 chunks.length 2:


neighbours
 Chunk 0 ------ 0.9071
 Chunk 1 0.9071 -----
created final summary 0 - 1
========= reduced to 1 summaries 

getSummary bottomLevel false seq 0 instructions: Summarise the provided description of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided text.   Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the content without any further commentary. 
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 0 of 1
 TEXT IN: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii during the winters of 61-62 and 62-63, highlighting his victory in the Minokaha contest and the subsequent popularity surge in Australia. He addresses the tension between board riders and surf clubs, which led to attempts to ban surfing and register surfboards. Farrelly also talks about the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, supported by Ampol, which sought to organize a world surfing contest. He reflects on the association's ground rules and the eventual formation of a world contest body. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to institutionalize the sport.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.

 - - - - chunk hierarchy summary:

===> Level 0 summary count: 21

 Level 0 Summary 0 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 239 time 227-17929
SOURCE TEXT:
I am Bernard Midget Farrelly. I live at 21 Palm Beach Road, Palm Beach, New South Wales. I'm recording this at my factory surf blinks at 11 West Street Book Vale on the 30th day of October 1984. It says here I am an Australian and international surf rider. What do that mean? The first title would be the 1963 Makaha International Serving. I forget what it was called exactly. I'd say Makaha, just call it Makaha International 1963. It was more or less the only international event that was considered a world title. before official world titles. After that, 1964, Australian and official world champion. The following year, Australian champion, 65, 1966, 6th place world championship. Oh, I left out the 65 World Championships, didn't make it to the final yet. 66 made it to 68, made it to equal first and then second on a count back. 1970 made it to second place. And as you've noted, Australian champion 64 and 65. A few... Uh, unusual contest titles. They mean, there's Bobby Brown Memorial. Contest at, uh, Sanctuary Beach, around the Canola area. And one that I thought was a little bit interesting, the small wave event. in Peru in 1960 or I believe also the Gunston 500 in 1970 at Durban South Africa a few other little small ones here and there but I think they're the main ones I was born in 1944 at Paddington.

 Level 0 Summary 1 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 203 time 18169-32367
SOURCE TEXT:
My parents were English originally from Ireland on my father's side Australian with an American father on my mother's side I have my earliest recollection of this surf going back to the age of six my uncle who was a Bondi lifesaver took me out on the surfboard when I was six years old at North Bondi I didn't enjoy it the first time I went out in fact I think I was terrified I didn't go near a surfboard until six years later when I was 12. In the meantime, my parents had taken me to live in a few different countries. I spent a year in Wales, I spent a year in Canada, and I spent a year in New Zealand. traveling to Canada and returning. I saw surfing at Waikiki and became slightly fascinated. What's the word did your father do? My father did anything and everything from running a photography business to running a a taxi to many other things, which I can't remember. What was the reason for this? He was dissatisfied with Australia, dissatisfied with the attitude of the people of this country at the time. thought that there had to be better places in the world.

 Level 0 Summary 2 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 214 time 32479-44335
SOURCE TEXT:
So he went looking further. So how did that affect your school? It was terrific because it ripped me out of school before I got too established or too entrenched in any sort of localisms. And so I went to school in different countries, was exposed to different cultures, was taught by women teachers, which was unthinkable in Australia at the time, went to coeducational school, which was totally unthinkable in Australia at the time. So it was a great advantage to travel from country to country and go to school there for one year. So when you finished, when did the serving start? I was living in Nairnly around about 1955, 1956. Less than 100 yards or so from the beach. I used to go and look at the waves because I travel by ship to different countries. I've sort of developed an appreciation for the ocean. I've been in fairly big storms in the North Atlantic and I've sort of gotten to like the ocean when I've gotten fairly sort of wild. I went down to Manly quite often to watch the surf when it came up and I happened to see people riding waves there. I got interested in the basics of how the wave was caught, how it was ridden.

 Level 0 Summary 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 44625-58809
SOURCE TEXT:
During one of the many storms that occurred through the winter months, A large number of surfboards would get washed out of the area underneath the surf club where they were stacked. They'd get smashed around on the rocks and they'd wash up along the beach. It was a common occurrence in those days because the board shed was well down underneath the surf club, slightly above sea level. I picked up a batted long board. It was about 18 feet. discovered that it either had no owner or the owner no longer wanted it from talking to the fellows in the surf club. I took it home, repaired it, got a set of wheels for wheeling it down to the surf and I started surfing. And the construction then? It was made entirely of wood. It was hollow. It had approximately half inch thick side timbers and was covered top and bottom with plywood over plywood, some frames and stringers made of possibly cedar or something like that. I rode those sort of boards for the next couple of years or so. until I saw the visiting Hawaiian Olympic team come to Manly on short bolster boards. Fellas like Tom's own and Greg Nile were riding 10 11 foot balsa boards covered with fiberglass I'd say this was I'm not exactly sure but I know it was the 56 Olympics and they would have appeared there late 56 maybe early 57 for all I know I'd probably been surfing

 Level 0 Summary 4 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 200 time 58985-69008
SOURCE TEXT:
for about either six months to a year when I did see them and it was a further year or two before bolster boards became available in Australia. So even though I've seen how much better you could ride a wave with the new shorter lighter bolster boards, It would have been a couple of years further on down the track before I would have actually got one. So at this stage you remember the freshwater surf club? No, not at all. At this stage, I was living at Manly, I was just a kid on the beach. One of, say, possibly two other kids who might have had surfboards. And surfing hadn't even begun other than in the surf clubs. I surfed in the Manly area until I slowly started moving with my parents to North Stain, then Queenscliff, then Harbourwood and then Kerl Kerl. So as the sport began to grow, as the population pressure started to grow, I slowly began to move northwards along the coast. So around about 58 or 59 I would have gone to the Harbour Beach or Freshwater Beach area and then I would have become a member of the Freshwater Surf Club.

 Level 0 Summary 5 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 207 time 69382-81738
SOURCE TEXT:
At that stage balsa boards were around about 10 feet in length, were well and truly established. This is going into 59. We were even looking at polystyrene boards, and a number of people were experimenting with them. Originally, Roger Kieran had made balsa boards up at Beacon Hill I bought a balsa board kit from him and built my first board while I was living in South Coco which is around about the 1958-1959 time when I just joined the surf club. And what was a balsa board kit? It consisted of a number of square balsa logs joined together, fiberglass resin and whatever else you needed to make the board. But around about the same time I was trying to make a polystyrene epoxy board. We progressed from the hollow boards of 16 to 18 feet down to hollow boards of around about 10 or 11 feet. My first professionally made hollow board was a Gordon Woods 14 foot board. My second professionally made board was a Bill Wallace 11 foot Malibu style hollow board. At that stage everybody in the manufacturing industry was having difficulty getting a hold of balsa wood to actually make a balsa board like the Hawaiians had brought with them.

 Level 0 Summary 6 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 81868-95041
SOURCE TEXT:
Since Roger had access to balsa, he was basically the first person producing short Hawaiian style balsa boards in Australia. He had two models. One was called the Okanui and the other one was called the Hellfire. That's Roger Kiran. Roger Kiran. He was also known as Roger Duck. But Kiran was the name that he became most widely known as. I don't know why he had two names. He was Roger Kiran, Roger Duck, and we called him the Duck, or he was often called Hellfire Duck. Roger was a character. and quite an innovator, somewhat so eccentric and because of his eccentricities he was dismissed at times as not being the The innovators at some other people thought they were, but Roger did come up with production bolster boards. Roger did come up with a removable fin and fin box system. And Roger sort of fiddled with anything and everything that looked like it might work. Just to say the other surfboard manufacturers were quite frustrated by not having bolster. So they persevered with the hollow plywood and wood construction. imitating the Hawaiian shapes, the best of these in my opinion. Well, some of the better ones were Joe Larkin who did Cedar and Ash, Bill Wallace who did Pacific Maple, Ash and some other nice wood versions, Gordon Woods, Barry Bennett, And at that stage, I think Greg McDonough was probably fooling around with polystyrene, trying to do in polystyrene and epoxy what the Hawaiians had done

 Level 0 Summary 7 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 95047-111300
SOURCE TEXT:
in balsa and fiberglass. However, I made my first shortboards out of balsa and I have been watching Greg McDonough working with polystyrene and epoxy and I eventually made one or two boards out of that material as did Scott Dillon and several other of the circled manufacturers of the time. But ultimately we all ended up using Bolsa. The structural integrity of Bolsa appeared to us at the time to be more desirable and the ease of use of polyester resins and fiberglass over epoxy appeared to be more desirable at that time. So when did you start business? Well, I'd filled around with repairing my long hollow boards, my short hollow boards. I'd made balsa boards and I'd made some epoxy storing boards for myself during the period that I was surfing at Kerl Kerl. and fresh water. And it wasn't until I left school that I got a job with Barry Bennett Surfboards, making fins, shaping wooden fins that I first sort of got into surfboard building professionally. Around about 59, surfing was basically well within the confines of the surf lifesaving club movement. And apart from the Hawaiians coming to Australia, we hadn't really seen much to indicate that surfing was anything other than a part of a surf club type life so I was in the freshwater surf club around about that period I just left school 1959 I had just gone to work for Barry Bennett making fins I eventually glass surfboards and then

 Level 0 Summary 8 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 207 time 111318-124582
SOURCE TEXT:
I shaped surfboards for Barry Bennett At that stage, surfing was starting to tickle the imaginations of people as something other than just a surf club style sport. Duke Kahonimo could come to Australia many years before and had sort of been the guest of the surf clubs in some ways and any mementos of his were left in surf clubs. So surfing stayed within the surf clubs up until about that point. Australia was changing, young people were starting to look for things to do. Surfing was a desirable thing to do for them in the sense that it seemed more interesting than just marching or rowing boats in surf clubs. Surf club men themselves were a unique breed of sort of hearty individuals. And all most of the surf club sports were team oriented, or orientated, whichever you like. Surfing itself was more for the individual and encouraged the individual to operate on a slightly more selfish basis in the ocean. So there was no lifestyle, subculture, glamour attached to surfing at that stage. It was just beginning to break out of the orthodox conservative surfboard type mould. Do you feel as though the music of the time was instrumental? We had rock and roll.

 Level 0 Summary 9 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 203 time 124724-139808
SOURCE TEXT:
It was catalytic in making the broader masses of people want to go surfing. But it was the early Bud Brown surfing films that indicated an alternative lifestyle. But Brown's surfing movies show Californians and Hawaiians living on the North Shore of Hawaii. In World War II, one set had living an alternative lifestyle. Not necessarily working too hard, but definitely surfing as hard as they could, riding all sorts of waves, building surfboards, living almost communally driving all cars for the sake of getting to surf spot to surf spot and generally you know stepping out of you know the popular mold of the times it looked like a fairly glamorous alternative when we first saw those Baprian movies and the waves they rode and the way they lived and it made myself and quite a few other Australians want to go to Hawaii in 1960 and a large group of us from the surf club and around the Manly area, bought boat tickets and sailed to Hawaii in 1960. There were people like Dave Jackman, Mickey McMunn, Buzzy Henry, Nipper Williams, Gordon Simpson, Bob Evans, A couple of surfers from Maroubra. Laurie Shored. Some other names, I don't have trouble remembering.

 Level 0 Summary 10 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 200 time 140045-153283
SOURCE TEXT:
We all sailed over there. This would be 960. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. This is six years after Pearl Harbor. Hang on, no, 16 years after Pearl Harbor. Hawaii was still a fairly frontier state of America at that time. Although I don't think it was a state. It could have been. Maybe it had just become a state. Or it was about to. And still a very sort of basic place. The 747s hadn't, it was a decade or so later before the 747s turned Hawaii into a tourist airport stop. So it was still a basic place. We got off the boat, rented cars, oh hang on we didn't rent cars, you couldn't rent cars that easily in those days we bought all the cars and took off for the North Shore and made our first Hawaiian surfing experience there were very few surfers out there at the time there was a relatively lonely place and we stumbled into the pioneer days of surfing, which were basically from 56 to around about 64. The original big wave riders were still there. The surfboard shapers were just beginning to become acknowledged and accomplished, or vice versa.

 Level 0 Summary 11 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 222 time 153499-167689
SOURCE TEXT:
And it was the first real exposure to, for me anyway, for design related to function, surfing equipment, making boards that would actually ride big waves. So who was the American names at Influencer? Well, at that stage there was George Downing building his own surfboards and there was a fellow called Pat Curran who built big wave boards that would actually ride big waves. And Curran ultimately was observed or influenced just about every other Shaper that has achieved any recognition. Since Curran's time, Dick Brewer watched Curran. Dick Brewer later influenced people like Rena Abalera, Al Chapman, Sam Hawke, Ben Ipper, and parish and many other shapers who came afterwards, whether they knew it or not, had actually picked up on the design principles that Pat Curran had pioneered at Waimea Bay. The early racing sailboards that Rick Nash, who was then a big wave rider, made for his son Robbie Nash, who is now many times world sailboarding champion, incorporated mostly Pat Curran's ideas into the sailboards and to this day a lot of people throughout the world don't realise that Curran was actually a major influence or force in making boards actually right ways. When it came to small waves there are a lot of people who could improvise but Curran actually got boards working in big waves.

 Level 0 Summary 12 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 204 time 167707-183316
SOURCE TEXT:
Downing was quite successful in the same field. But it appeared to me, and I could be wrong, that it was Curran who actually made surfboards ride waves from 20 to 30 feet. Downing, Curran, Buzzy Trent, Greg Noll, all of those people were present in that era and had the power and the presence to push the surfing thing along to the point where we came back to Australia really enthused about wanting to ride more waves, make more surfboards and develop a style that we could identify with. There were two major influences in getting Australian surfing going and possibly enthusiastic. One was Bud Brown's surfing movies. And two was the first two or three issues of the American Surfer magazine. One was a series of movies showing the sport and the lifestyle. And the other was a collection of stills and written material giving more depth to that sport and lifestyle. It was this strengthening of the sport and the lifestyle that ultimately led servers away from the surf club. We'd also gone to Hawaii to see the Makaha international contest. We'd seen movies of the huge waves that they had in the contest. So a lot of us had entered.

 Level 0 Summary 13 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 216 time 183464-195605
SOURCE TEXT:
Unfortunately that year the event was postponed so many times due to the small sale that none of us actually got to compete to the point of of any eliminations. So we got a good first taste for Hawaii. We stayed about two to three months during the Hawaiian winter. And we'd learnt to ride some bigger waves. We'd learnt to built some surfboards and we knew we'd have to do some serious preparation to come back there for the next year. We did come back to Australia and I'm not sure whether it was... Yes, it was. It was before that first trip that a fairly unique event did take place. It was a fellow called Dave Jackman riding the Queenscliff Bombora on a really huge wave day. And the reason it's well worth mentioning is that he took out a surfboard made by Joe Larkin, a big waveboard 11 feet long, and the waves were sufficiently big that no other person wanted to go out there and ride those waves. the person who did want to do it. And he was filmed at the time. He made a rather interesting surfing history. And that same board that Dave wrote of the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, I took to Hawaii with me on that first trip.

 Level 0 Summary 14 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 209 time 195825-207004
SOURCE TEXT:
I never wrote any waves, it's because the ones he did at the Queen's Cliff Pomboa, but That was the sort of person who went to Hawaii at the time. That was the sort of enthusiasm for big wave riding that fellas like Bob Pike, Nipper, Dave Jackman, Mickie McMahon, Gordon Simpson and these fellas took with them when they went to Hawaii on that very first trip. They did ride Wai-Ming-Bai. They did ride Sunset. I did want to ride in the car, but it never got big enough. There was a tremendous enthusiasm amongst a hardcore big wave riding group of those fellows that first year. It lasted over till the second year for quite a few of them. Others didn't go back. People like Pike did go back. I went back the following year. By that time, we could actually fly back by jet prop Canadian Pacific. I'm actually flying to Hawaii then. This is the beginning of our travel. The second year, I entered the Makaha contest and most of the other Australians were eliminated. Not in 61. 61. And it came down to the final day where the surf was relatively small. I was about the only Australian on the beach at the time.

 Level 0 Summary 15 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 205 time 207004-218400
SOURCE TEXT:
I think there might have been a few people in the crowd who were tourists or something. Waves are around about six feet, maximum, averaging about four feet. And I happen to come further inside. The wave riding area was spread over a great distance. In fact, distance was a major factor in scoring points, but I sort of cut the the course in half, so to speak, and came and sat inside and sort of abandoned the format that I sort of established for myself, which was only the same format that everybody else was using, distance, wave height and performance on the wave. I abandoned that and I just moved inside and caught more or less any wave that came along. There happened to be three California judges on the stand at the time, Dick Brewer, Buzzy Trent and Dewey Weber. The fact that they appreciated small waves since they were from California, combined with the fact that I had an ability to ride small waves, probably made the result come out the way it did. had it been a purely Hawaiian panel, I'm sure the result would have been different. The uproar caused by Hawaii, non-Hawaiian winning that event was completely unbelievable.

 Level 0 Summary 16 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 220 time 218404-233070
SOURCE TEXT:
Those three judges were never allowed to judge in the national contest again. The Hawaiian winter of 60, 61 was the, hang on, I've got it wrong again. The Hawaiian winter of 61, 62 was the first year we went to Hawaii. The Hawaiian winter of 62, 63 was the year that I won Minokaha contest. The newspapers in Honolulu at that time carried headlines of such things as Hawaiian surfing prestige wiped out. I actually had the odd Hawaiian chasing me. Not too many of them, luckily. Most of them took it pretty well. but they did cherish their surfing image and reputation rather strongly and they proved that years and years later when any sort of Australian tried to mouth off the Hawaiians were very quick to jump up and defend themselves individually as a group and as a state I came back to Hawaii after the Makaha. I came back to Australia after the Makaha contest. And the event had sort of caused a small ripple here, but it sort of, it grew. People sort of came to appreciate it more and more. Australia was a very different country than we were sort of a country that sort of looked down on itself but got pride out of any winning that any individuals or teams could achieve.

 Level 0 Summary 17 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 201 time 233107-248119
SOURCE TEXT:
So it took a while for people to realise that in Australia had actually won something and then once they did realise they've sort of got a bit excited about it. And the newspaper's made a small sensation out of it. And ironically, at that time, the popularity of surfing as something other than a sport, surfing as a subculture or a lifestyle, took off. The Californian experience was that once you had this formula of beach waves, music, clothes, cars, language, you had an explosive sort of situation and the same thing occurred here. Surfing as an alternative in sport lifestyle and everything that that encompasses clothing, language, music, dance, it just took off. Young people jumped into it and the numbers in the water just doubled, travelled, quadrupled and just kept going and going and going. surfing through 1963 and 1964 achieved sensational publicity. This led to the conflict between the board riders and the surf clubs. Well, surf clubs were fairly regimented in their beach sport. They marched in a line, they carried reels in a line, they carried flags in a line, they pulled a boat down the beach in a disciplined way. Surfers were the opposite.

 Level 0 Summary 18 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 211 time 248157-261035
SOURCE TEXT:
They were non-conformists. They only surfed when the waves were good. And they were doing it as individuals, not as teams. And the surf globes saw themselves threatened. And they, together with several of the local beach councils, they did everything they could to either suppress surfing or make surfing as difficult as possible for people to take part in. They tried banning it at beaches. They tried registering boards. surface or brand that is dangerous in and out of the water, louts, hooligans, as trying to hit people with their boards in the water. I think the most disgusting incident I saw was local councils registering surfboards in the belief that they could control them on behalf of the surf clubs and protect the public when in actual fact it was a revenue-raising exercise which ultimately became self-defeating since people refused to register their surfboards in the end. the financial burden of running the bureaucracy to control surfing and finally brought the whole project to a screaming halt. Today surfers still prize the old registration stickers just to show young people what the councils and surf clubs at the time had in mind and what they were about. and how people were actually so afraid of surfing at that time.

 Level 0 Summary 19 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 202 time 261402-276463
SOURCE TEXT:
So what about the, what happened after that when the association started? Well, surfing exploded in every direction. Products, contests, organisations, bands, music, It was obvious that we're going to be clubs and organizations. So I don't really remember quite how it occurred, but Ampol, the petroleum company, the petrol company, if you like, frustrated, wanted to get behind surfing and they wanted to run a world contest. a major event at Manley in 1964, in May 1964. We needed an organisation to run it, so the Australian Sufriders Association was formed as MPOL provided the financial backing. and flew individual surfers and others came independently from a variety of countries from around the world. And who were the Australians involved? Well, even in the organisation. At that stage there were a loose group of individuals, Bob Evans, Ross Kelly, John Wetzig and quite a few others who are Ray Young from Bondi and quite a few others who sort of put the association together slowly. I can't remember all the people who were wearing it. What were the ground rules? the association set up to promote surfing and to form rules for judging and set up eventually a world contest body.

 Level 0 Summary 20 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 12 time 276699-277252
SOURCE TEXT:
Bernard Midget Farrelly, tape one, side one, continuing, tape one, side two.

===> Level 1 summary count: 6

 Level 1 Summary 0 source from 0 to 4  Words: 129 time 227-69008
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly, an Australian and international surf rider, recounts his surfing journey starting from his early childhood experiences at North Bondi, where he was initially terrified of surfing. His father's dissatisfaction with Australia led the family to live in Wales, Canada, and New Zealand, exposing Bernard to different cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, Bernard began surfing using a long wooden board found on the beach. He later transitioned to shorter bolster boards after witnessing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Bernard's surfing career spans from the 1963 Makaha International to his Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, with notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. His journey reflects a growing passion for surfing, influenced by international exposure and the evolution of surfboard technology.

 Level 1 Summary 1 source from 5 to 9  Words: 158 time 69382-139808
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.

 Level 1 Summary 2 source from 10 to 10  Words: 68 time 140045-153283
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his journey to Hawaii six years after Pearl Harbor, noting the island's frontier status and the absence of rental cars, leading to the purchase of vehicles for exploration. They experienced Hawaii's early surfing culture, encountering pioneering surfers and shapers from 1956 to around 1964, a time when the island was still developing as a tourist destination with the introduction of the 747s.

 Level 1 Summary 3 source from 11 to 15  Words: 169 time 153499-218400
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his first exposure to functional surfboard design during an interview with Neil Bennetts. He recounts the influence of American shapers like George Downing and Pat Curran, who pioneered big wave surfboard design. Curran's designs were adopted by other shapers and influenced the development of surfboards that could ride big waves. Farrelly also mentions the impact of Bud Brown's surfing movies and the American Surfer magazine on Australian surfing enthusiasm. He describes a unique event where Dave Jackman rode a big wave at Queenscliff Bombora on a surfboard made by Joe Larkin. Farrelly and other Australian surfers, including Bob Pike and Mickie McMahon, traveled to Hawaii for the Makaha contest, where Farrelly entered and won, despite the waves being smaller than expected. The victory caused controversy due to the non-Hawaiian winning, highlighting the influence of California judges who appreciated small wave riding. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there marked the beginning of his travel and deepened his passion for big wave surfing.

 Level 1 Summary 4 source from 16 to 19  Words: 149 time 218404-276463
SUMMARY TEXT:
In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing in Hawaii and its impact on Australia. He mentions the Hawaiian winters of 61-62 and 62-63, during which he won the Minokaha contest and experienced a surge in surfing popularity. Farrelly notes that the event caused a ripple effect in Australia, leading to a growing appreciation and excitement for surfing. He describes the conflict between board riders and surf clubs, with the latter attempting to suppress surfing through various means, including banning it at beaches and registering surfboards. Farrelly also discusses the formation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, which was supported by Ampol, a petroleum company. The association aimed to promote surfing and organize a world contest, bringing together surfers from around the world. Farrelly reflects on the ground rules set by the association and the eventual establishment of a world contest body.

 Level 1 Summary 5 source from 20 to 20  Words: 12 time 276699-277252
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard Midget Farrelly interview on tape sides one and two.

===> Level 2 summary count: 2

 Level 2 Summary 0 source from 0 to 3  Words: 178 time 227-218400
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.

 Level 2 Summary 1 source from 4 to 5  Words: 108 time 218404-277252
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii during the winters of 61-62 and 62-63, highlighting his victory in the Minokaha contest and the subsequent popularity surge in Australia. He addresses the tension between board riders and surf clubs, which led to attempts to ban surfing and register surfboards. Farrelly also talks about the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, supported by Ampol, which sought to organize a world surfing contest. He reflects on the association's ground rules and the eventual formation of a world contest body. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to institutionalize the sport.

===> Level 3 summary count: 1

 Level 3 Summary 0 source from 0 to 1  Words: 208 time 227-277252
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.
REVERSED hierarchy
S 	level 0 source from 0 to 1  Words: 208 time 227-277252
   S00 	level 1 source from 0 to 3  Words: 178 time 227-218400
      S00-00 	level 2 source from 0 to 4  Words: 129 time 227-69008
         T00-00-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 239 time 227-17929
         T00-00-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 203 time 18169-32367
         T00-00-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 214 time 32479-44335
         T00-00-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 44625-58809
         T00-00-04 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 200 time 58985-69008
      S00-01 	level 2 source from 5 to 9  Words: 158 time 69382-139808
         T00-01-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 207 time 69382-81738
         T00-01-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 81868-95041
         T00-01-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 95047-111300
         T00-01-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 207 time 111318-124582
         T00-01-04 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 203 time 124724-139808
      S00-02 	level 2 source from 10 to 10  Words: 68 time 140045-153283
         T00-02-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 200 time 140045-153283
      S00-03 	level 2 source from 11 to 15  Words: 169 time 153499-218400
         T00-03-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 222 time 153499-167689
         T00-03-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 204 time 167707-183316
         T00-03-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 216 time 183464-195605
         T00-03-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 209 time 195825-207004
         T00-03-04 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 205 time 207004-218400
   S01 	level 1 source from 4 to 5  Words: 108 time 218404-277252
      S01-00 	level 2 source from 16 to 19  Words: 149 time 218404-276463
         T01-00-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 220 time 218404-233070
         T01-00-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 201 time 233107-248119
         T01-00-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 211 time 248157-261035
         T01-00-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 202 time 261402-276463
      S01-01 	level 2 source from 20 to 20  Words: 12 time 276699-277252
         T01-01-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 12 time 276699-277252
SESSION SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.
about to update session with contents id:nla.obj-203494374
session update done
deleting parts
Deleting solr core audio2SessionPart  query: sessionId:"nla.obj-203494374"
solrDelete  query: sessionId:"nla.obj-203494374" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":5}}
parts deleted
About to add parts to SOLR
Added 30 parts
deleting from cache:nla.obj-203494363
Deleting solr core audioReindexQueue  query: docid:"nla.obj-203494374" AND timestamp:[-999999999 TO 1724976454]
solrDelete  query: docid:"nla.obj-203494374" AND timestamp:[-999999999 TO 1724976454] result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":0}}
Got audio to summarise from reindex queue: {"id":"1724976460246","timestamp":1724976460,"docid":"nla.obj-203494642","transcriptJson":["{\"sessionId\":\"nla.obj-203494642\",\"deliveryObject\":\"nla.oh-2802-0000-0001-s2\",\"transcript\":{\"chunks\":[{\"speaker\":0,\"validated\":0,\"content\":[{\"s\":238,\"d\":40,\"t\":\"Bernard\"},{\"s\":288,\...
findAudioToSummarise got session [object Object]

==>CHUNK 0 -  time 238-15597205 words: Bernard Midget Farrelly, continuing take one, side two. At the first law contest, Ed Holt sponsored basically the organization, the setting up of the event, and some of the air travel, if not most of it, The prizes for the event were trophies. At that stage, there was no one even thought of giving money. As a prize, it was more or less unthinkable. Competing for money, the world was still thinking amateur, amateur, amateur. There was every amateur status. So it was a... An event for title and trophy. It was competition for men, junior men and women. Let's run at Manning Beach in May. Small search, good conditions, average wave height would have been around about four feet. Huge crowd turn up for the final. Newspapers put the crowds at 80,000. Possibly there are 50,000, I don't know. To be sure. For some reason, the contest went off in the spirit of success of the whole sport of the time. It was a huge success. And it fired off the first World Circuit contest. The next one was to be in Peru, the following year. California, USA, the following year. We missed a year till 68 where it went to Puerto Rico, 1970.

==>CHUNK 1 -  time 15747-29173220 words: It went back to Australia to the Torque area. But the mood and the success of the thing was incredibly high and incredibly strong. And it launched surfing on a very healthy path. It didn't mean that much to me. I was rather oblivious to it. Much the same as I've been oblivious to the Makaha contest and its later ramifications for the locals and for other people. I was unaware of the things occurring around me. somewhat sad, a lucky ability to see only the sport I was involved in and what I needed to do in the water. And I hadn't even begun to consider the politics of the sport the financial side of the school. I was only interested in surfing and building surfboards. So you were the in-state of business? At that stage I'd been building surfboards with kiosk surfboards and I was very keen to sort of become a specialised shaper, primitive in other words. and build a sort of a fairly model surfboard. And so at the time I thought Gordon Woods surfboards would be the perfect place for me to do that. And that was in 64. I did that for a few months with Gordon Woods, and then I discovered that I might as well be just doing the whole thing myself.

==>CHUNK 2 -  time 29326-39579234 words: One of the things that I learnt was I was an individual and the individuals always pay one kind of price or another and my price was I didn't fit in that easily with other people as far as my ambitions as to what I wanted to do and their ambitions and what they sort of wanted so you know that's probably too much of a primadonna so I probably had to go and do my own thing which is what I did. So I started building surfboards completely, I don't know, in 1964 up at Palm Beach in a boat ship. Did you also revolve in skateboard riding? Well, there are many facets to surfing at the time and skateboard riding was one of them. Like a lot of people I ride skateboards at the time. So I lent my name to the Australian surf skate manufacturing product called the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard. Which was a rather primitive product when you look at today's skateboards. We didn't have urethane wheels. We didn't have satisfactory ball bearing races. We didn't have satisfactory track assemblies. And we had a very basic wood top. the enterprises doomed to a relatively early failure, even though it was the only product on the market, in spite of how poor a product it was, it survived a period of time until it went the way of all bad products.

==>CHUNK 3 -  time 40173-58901250 words: The sport at that time had sort of enjoyed a kind of strong, relatively healthy image. We'd sort of gone through the surfer, rocker, war, newspaper sensationalism period, and surfers had sort of settled into a kind of a, almost tennis star, mold but it was to change fairly dramatically around about the time of flower power and LSD and San Francisco experience There was a sort of major influence brought to bear on the sport by people who were attempting to establish themselves as gurus of the sport. And one of these people weren't necessarily good service. In fact, suddenly we're out right forwards. And so the emphasis was taken away from the competitive side of things where you could actually prove yourself in the water and it was turned towards more of a so-called mystical lifestyle experience. And there are many people who doubt my version of what I've heard from then on, but for anybody who doubts, they should go and see a fantastic plastic machine. Because everything that ever went wrong with surfing is captured in that movie. Surfers were portrayed as complete alternative lifestyles the flower power drunk or dope thing was given greater emphasis than it deserved and at one stage it was said that if you weren't into dope you didn't know what you were doing in the waves anyway and that although many will look back and deny it now, was probably one of the worst things that ever happened to surfing.

==>CHUNK 4 -  time 58989-72020201 words: The peer group pressure was so intense that anybody young in surfing was automatically pressured to get into dope as well. And that took a good, the influence of that took a good four to six years to wear off. Needless to say, the end results were relatively catastrophic. And the history of surfing is quite perverted through that period. And much of the material written about surfing during that period is quite nonsensical. Meanwhile, in the background, surfing was still sort of clicking away as a sort of natural sport. It always was and always will be a way of a surfboard and a human. And the world contests were still being run. And luckily the dope culture began to separate out. It was obvious that if you wanted to win world contests, you actually had to be a good surfer. Much was made of the so-called birth of the modern style of surfing through 66 onwards But in reality, it was a fabrication by a small group of individuals seeking to exert influence over the history of the sport and the sport at the time. Almost an Australian surfing cultural revolution trying to wipe away what went before it.

==>CHUNK 5 -  time 72434-84526200 words: All of the theories proposed ultimately fell by the wayside in competition. Some of the surviving mentors of the surfing cultural revolution to this day tend to ignore the fact that they still hadn't advanced their ideas to the point where they could actually win a world contest in 68 or 1970 with them. But would it also mean, Major, that because of this date situation, that they would find themselves very difficult to find sponsors to run the events? Well, they've managed to drive surfing down in public esteem and ultimately in everybody's esteem. by first we're using it and then abusing it and then not realising it, so it's still basically a simple thing. It sort of drove the sponsors away temporarily and made surfing a little bit unappealing. And what were you doing in the middle of all this? I was still maintaining that surfing was something that you did in the water and if you were good enough at it, you either enjoyed it first for yourself and then secondly for other people, watched it as judges and could score accordingly. You might do okay in a contest and luckily that's the way it ultimately went.

==>CHUNK 6 -  time 84729-99421243 words: people saw through the facade of the subculture lifestyle, nonsense, and settled down to saying, well, I think it's a lot of fun. And competition breeds progress as well as competitiveness. And look at surfers. They're actually a healthy fit sort of people on the outside. What a shame. They're not all the same on the inside in the head. So as surfing got into the 70s, a lot of the young guys who didn't like the dope subculture lifestyle nonsense sort of said, oh, well, this is not what we want. We want surfing as a sport. We've always loved it as. And we want to turn it into a fairly honorable thing again. and we'd like to maybe make a living doing it. And through the efforts of people like Mark Warren and the younger people of his time, Through the efforts of people like Graham Cassidy and the people that helped him surface of that period wanted to recapture the feeling of the early 60s when surfing was a sort of vibrant, exciting, sport, healthy, aggressive competition wise. rewarding just to be in it sort of thing and through the establishment of the surf about contest which was sponsored by Coca-Cola and 2SM surfing was sort of reborn in the public's image and The professionalism that evolved both for the surface as an income earning venture and through the judging and the organization has sort of continued since that time.

==>CHUNK 7 -  time 99505-111932207 words: Luckily the old guard, most of them dropped out of surfing for one reason or another and these newer people who had a sort of desire to bring it back to its former glory have actually done that. Not in 70 was the last world contest that I completed in here in Australia. I didn't go into any major contests after that time until several of the surf about events which I think occurred through the middle 70s, maybe 73, 74, 75, something like that. Around about 73, I started to hang glide. I had been sailing catamarines through the middle 60s. As a diversion, I started hang gliding as a diversion. I was still surfing, I didn't put all my energies into surfing competition. Luckily I was still invited into surfing competitions and that kept my interest up quite a bit. To this day the revival of all facets of surfing is so strong now and people have realised that in there are many ways to ride a surfboard so I'm still getting invitations to go into surfing contests. And the nickname of Midget Ferali, how did that come about? My first surfboard was 18 feet long. I weighed less than six stone at the time.

==>CHUNK 8 -  time 112104-121217212 words: I certainly appeared as a midget at the time. Surfboard started out very basically by comparison to what you see today with all the fins and little bumps in the rails. The simplest surfboard I imagine was the little plank of wood that somebody saved themselves on as they were either swept out to sea or survived a shipwreck. I'm pretty sure that, like most people, an ironing board might have been the first surfboard that somebody ever had 20 odd years ago. I know I used to ride an ironing board in the surf at Takapuni in New Zealand as a kid. And a lot of other kids had ironing boards too, wooden ironing boards. And I'm sure the Hawaiians who would have picked up on the simplest form would have had simple little bits of wood for catching waves. I know it was only the Aliki or the nobility that had long boards. And the greater the elite, the greater the board, he had a board so great that he didn't paddle it out himself because he would have been too tired to get it out there. He went out in a canoe and the slaves paddled it out for him and he only caught the wave and raided in.

==>CHUNK 9 -  time 121375-131905208 words: So by the time Cook got to the Hawaiian Islands and saw male and female riding side by side, surfboards must have gotten a bit smaller than the The 20 foot boards used by the Hawaiian Kings. The Duke used a heavy solid wood board here all those years ago. I've sort of seen that board many times and it's not a board I'd like to ride. The hollow racing style circle board which could still wave right were made very light, but basically only men were supposed to use them. They were 14, 16, 18 feet long, and I can't remember the weight of them, but I know it took a man to carry them. The 10, 11 foot hollow copies of the Hawaiian boards nearly reached the stage where a light person or a girl could carry them. Bolsa boards at around about 10 feet were the breakthrough. A girl could carry one of those, and that's when the possibilities of all people surfing really arose. By the time the first foam boards came along, not necessarily the polystyrene boards covered with epoxy, they were light, but they had so many structural problems. of one kind or another, that they were totally suitable for mass market.

==>CHUNK 10 -  time 131907-144548220 words: By the time the urethane foam boards came along, the weight of the surfboard had been reduced, say from the early days, from something like 100 pounds down to something like 15 pounds and less. And many people experimented with shape and construction and not all of the changes that occur can be credited to any single individual. There was mostly a second C approach all the way down the line to design. One of the shortest boards I ever saw was a six foot six, Dave Jackman wrote it. made out of polystyrene and epoxy made for him by Greg McDonough. Very early in the piece. It could have even been before the Bolsheviks, I'm not sure. But maybe it wasn't. Maybe it was when we had phone boards covered with fiberglass. But I'm not sure. 1959, I think I... perhaps even made a boxer board that was down around six feet six. I abandoned it for all the obvious reasons at the time. Wave catching is, you couldn't ride big waves with it, etc, etc. As surfboards supposedly progressed and got smaller and smaller, more fins were attached. Basically, the reason was for nobility on the wave. Like dancing, surfing, change, it appeared to be simple at first and then it became complex and then it became specialised.

==>CHUNK 11 -  time 144732-153729214 words: Till today the modern surfboard can only be written by a very light person or a very athletic person. And the surfboard manufacturing industry has actually painted itself into a corner which it is now desperately trying to get out of. Because there aren't enough small light physically aggressive people to buy them. So we went from single fins to twins to triads to quads to five and have a five fin that works nicely on bigger waves. But basically All the changes that have been made at a time when, like that saying, nothing can stop an idea whose time has come, had come. And to an outsider, the variety of fins doesn't really make any sense, but it's actually the balance of the board on the wave that counts. And a single fin balance doesn't compare with a twin fin balance. A tri fin doesn't compare and a four fin. A quad fin doesn't compare and a penta fin doesn't compare. It's all a balance that can be achieved by reducing the size of each fin and its position on the board. And it is the rider who sort of understands this best. When the board is locked into a wave by one fin, it has that feeling of being locked in.

==>CHUNK 12 -  time 153812-163479221 words: when a board is held onto the wave face by a variety of small fins, it is only barely held onto the wave face. So the board is actually skating around and a more fluid style of surfing is achieved. More fluid, spontaneous, creative style of surfing is achieved. Modern skateboarding is totally different to the original skateboarding. Modern dancing is the same. It's more spontaneous. Much less predictable. It can go in any direction and it's quite delightful for the eye to watch. One of the disadvantages of very small boards is it can be maneuver limiting unless the surfer is very good and does have a wide range of maneuvers. However, today we find that a good surf shop will carry single fins, twin fins, tri-fins, four fins in small surfboards below six feet. We'll carry longer boards in the six foot, six to seven foot range for the surfer say five years ago. We'll carry eight foot to nine foot boards within the single fin tri-fin range for surfers of say ten or twelve years ago and In my factory now I manufacture boards at 9 foot 6 with single fins for surface of 20 years ago and a wave can be written with any of these boards, with a boogie board, a knee board, a belly board.

==>CHUNK 13 -  time 163621-175709205 words: a wave ski, a sailboard, a surf boat, a paddleboard, flippers only with the body. The good thing about the phase that surfing is going into now in 1984 is that the variety of surfing equipment is so broad and so interesting. Everybody wants to surf on some piece of equipment And it isn't necessary to have to ride what everybody else is riding. And one of the interesting things about today is that everybody has a son or a daughter who surfs. And since we do, since Australians all live on the coastline, it's only natural that they would want to use the ocean. And we are sort of achieving a sort of physical fitness through a sport having arrived at its present stage from those first visits by the Duke, where in fact the surfboard should be considered a health aid. The federal government should remove the 20% sales tax from surfboards. Unfortunately, price of a surfboard is inflated more than it necessarily should be. Surfing was originally considered an obscure eccentric type sport. It became a sub-cultural lifestyle sport but today surfing should be considered a healthy sport, a life-saving sport and It is today fitted so completely into everyday Australian life.

==>CHUNK 14 -  time 175823-186366211 words: Even though it might appear unique to people who don't do it, it is a very normal part of Australian life on the case then. In 1973 I came across Hangliding. It interested me greatly. It was like surfing. It was a unique sport and an individual sport. And it was the opening of the door to a new developing sport. I flew and manufactured hang riders for something like seven years up until 1970. I stopped building hang riders and sort of got interested in surfing and sailboarding again. I saw Hang Lighting Go from me, a pioneer type sport to kind of a relatively popular type sport that had a lot of ups and downs, but is sort of settling into the same kind of slot that sailplaning has settled into. I enjoyed it, learning to fly on the different beaches and the hills. I eventually drew the line when it came to the cross country part because it was going to take me away from the ocean. And I would spend a lot of time driving and not so much time flying. And about that time sailboarding was coming along. Sailboarding was, I've tried sailboarding many years ago in the windsurfing and I didn't enjoy it at all.

==>CHUNK 15 -  time 186526-195077209 words: but then I could see the possibilities of sailboarding on a wave on a small board and I enjoyed the learning process of getting that going for myself and then building the equipment to do it. To the point where I eventually found that all the big waves I could never ride on a surfboard I had to paddle at the back of Longreef around the Bombora so I could ride on a sailboard and I have since found that the sailboarding and surfing actually complement each other. And when the weather is unfavorable for one, you can do the other. So when it's windy and miserable and the surf's being blown up big, you can go out on a sailboard. When it's clean and smooth and you've got perfect waves, you can go and ride a sailboard. Throughout my surfing career, people have always tried to categorise my surfing. And just when they think they've got me down, suddenly they turn around and look and I've changed. And the good thing about surfing is it does change. The style changes. A lot of people feel compelled to say that they came from a period where the star was such and such, I don't feel that way at all.

==>CHUNK 16 -  time 195217-202435203 words: I changed to sit the equipment, to sit the wave. A lot of people think there are ideal surfing breaks, I don't. I think that any surfing break is ideal provided that you can get what you want out of it. I learnt to ride in bad waves because I sharpened my reflexes in bad waves. When I had to learn to ride big waves, I had to go to Hawaii. When I had to learn to ride long, easy, soft, gentle waves, I went to Queensland. But I don't have any preference. I think variety is the important thing. Likewise, it is with your surfing style. You have to keep changing to stay interested. And one of the reasons I went and hang lighting on, I go sailboarding is because it's an alternative. So I can come back and look at surfing and say, This is still fun sort of thing, and I've got something to learn here. If I was going to teach somebody to surf, basically all I would say to them, well, there is the wave, this is the board that suits that wave, and all you have to do is get what you want out of that wave.

==>CHUNK 17 -  time 202439-215479223 words: If you only want to ride it in laying down, then do that, if that's what makes you happy. If you want to become a high-performance professional star surfing competitor, you've got to work hard at a great variety of maneuvers and become a total athlete. Some of the surface that I came across There are actually too many of them. It started with local type of watermen, like Dave Jackman writing the Queenscliff Bombora. It started with fellas who were good swimmers and good servers like Sugar Robinson from Harbour. It started with a lot of big wave riders in Hawaii who were fantastic physical athletes, and good wave riders as well. But also like Ricky Grign who could ride any huge wave in Hawaii. People like Pat Curran who could ride the biggest surf of the year, sit down and work out when the biggest wave would come, where to position yourself. People like Greg Noll who could not avoid going out on the biggest day of the year and trying to catch the biggest wave in Hawaii. People like Jose Angel who could paddle out at the wrong side of the Benzo pipeline and catch huge pipeline waves, ride huge sunset, ride huge wind here, ride any huge wave or try to There have been too many good surfers tonight.

==>CHUNK 18 -  time 215703-229715214 words: Australian surfers, they were really good. There's always been people like, some people you don't hear a lot of, like Bobby Brown was an exceptional surfer in bigger small waves. Later on, well-known surfers were actually more manufactured identities. And it isn't until the latest crop of surfers that I sort of feel that you're reaching a point where you're getting people who have actually been tested, their metals being tested in the fire. Mark Richards is an exception. an exceptional server. He has proven himself on contest results only. And now people like Tom Cowell are establishing themselves as terrific athletes and intelligent competitors. I think Professional contests now are actually a genuine yardstick of ability. And a lot of the fabricated stars of the late middle 60s, early 70s, you know, have a lot of trouble measuring it in any form at all. A lot of the fellows that I competed against who lost to me in the early days that were Hawaiians and Californians like Mike Dewey, you know, the guys who sort of did it with that good sportsman-like dignity, I really appreciate it. I learn a lot from them. You know, the people you know, who later went on to beat me, you know, guys like Oby Brown and...

==>CHUNK 19 -  time 230027-240208201 words: and, uh, surface like Ralph Van Ness, uh, you know, who did it with dignity and style. They really impressed me, uh, over the years sort of thing. And I think one of the things that I really like now is looking at that some of the young guys who have won, Mark Richards has done a lot with a lot of style, with a lot of dignity. The incredible thing about Mark Richards is he has been a fantastic competitor and in the real sense of the word he's competed in tiny waves. In Japan he's competed in huge waves in Hawaii and really if you sort of transfer that to any other sport you know he is if McEnroe had operated with the same dignity and achieved the same sort of reputation, he would be sort of regarded in a different light. And now that Tommy Carroll has sort of set himself on a path of pure athletic achievement and intelligence from going from country to country, You're stepping into a different realm there. It's hard to believe that Cassius Clay's mouth did anything for him other than to lead him into situations he should never have got into.

==>CHUNK 20 -  time 240346-251133206 words: It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.

==>CHUNK 21 -  time 251191-25190015 words: Man having some limited control over the moving ocean, and he's bored, and he's bored.


 * * * * * processChunksIntoSummaries HIERARCHY LENGTH 1 chunks.length 22:


neighbours
 Chunk 0 ------ 0.6537
 Chunk 1 0.6537 0.7896
 Chunk 2 0.7896 0.7173
 Chunk 3 0.7173 0.8395
 Chunk 4 0.8395 0.8502
 Chunk 5 0.8502 0.8201
 Chunk 6 0.8201 0.8047
 Chunk 7 0.8047 0.7977
 Chunk 8 0.7977 0.8732
 Chunk 9 0.8732 0.8690
 Chunk 10 0.8690 0.8026
 Chunk 11 0.8026 0.8776
 Chunk 12 0.8776 0.8014
 Chunk 13 0.8014 0.7590
 Chunk 14 0.7590 0.7970
 Chunk 15 0.7970 0.8616
 Chunk 16 0.8616 0.7579
 Chunk 17 0.7579 0.7917
 Chunk 18 0.7917 0.7582
 Chunk 19 0.7582 0.6687
 Chunk 20 0.6687 0.5688
 Chunk 21 0.5688 -----
created summary 0 - 4
Bernard Midget Farrelly, continuing take one, side two. At the first law contest, Ed Holt sponsored basically the organization, the setting up of the event, and some of the air travel, if not most of it, The prizes for the event were trophies. At that stage, there was no one even thought of giving money. As a prize, it was more or less unthinkable. Competing for money, the world was still thinking amateur, amateur, amateur. There was every amateur status. So it was a... An event for title and trophy. It was competition for men, junior men and women. Let's run at Manning Beach in May. Small search, good conditions, average wave height would have been around about four feet. Huge crowd turn up for the final. Newspapers put the crowds at 80,000. Possibly there are 50,000, I don't know. To be sure. For some reason, the contest went off in the spirit of success of the whole sport of the time. It was a huge success. And it fired off the first World Circuit contest. The next one was to be in Peru, the following year. California, USA, the following year. We missed a year till 68 where it went to Puerto Rico, 1970. It went back to Australia to the Torque area. But the mood and the success of the thing was incredibly high and incredibly strong. And it launched surfing on a very healthy path. It didn't mean that much to me. I was rather oblivious to it. Much the same as I've been oblivious to the Makaha contest and its later ramifications for the locals and for other people. I was unaware of the things occurring around me. somewhat sad, a lucky ability to see only the sport I was involved in and what I needed to do in the water. And I hadn't even begun to consider the politics of the sport the financial side of the school. I was only interested in surfing and building surfboards. So you were the in-state of business? At that stage I'd been building surfboards with kiosk surfboards and I was very keen to sort of become a specialised shaper, primitive in other words. and build a sort of a fairly model surfboard. And so at the time I thought Gordon Woods surfboards would be the perfect place for me to do that. And that was in 64. I did that for a few months with Gordon Woods, and then I discovered that I might as well be just doing the whole thing myself. One of the things that I learnt was I was an individual and the individuals always pay one kind of price or another and my price was I didn't fit in that easily with other people as far as my ambitions as to what I wanted to do and their ambitions and what they sort of wanted so you know that's probably too much of a primadonna so I probably had to go and do my own thing which is what I did. So I started building surfboards completely, I don't know, in 1964 up at Palm Beach in a boat ship. Did you also revolve in skateboard riding? Well, there are many facets to surfing at the time and skateboard riding was one of them. Like a lot of people I ride skateboards at the time. So I lent my name to the Australian surf skate manufacturing product called the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard. Which was a rather primitive product when you look at today's skateboards. We didn't have urethane wheels. We didn't have satisfactory ball bearing races. We didn't have satisfactory track assemblies. And we had a very basic wood top. the enterprises doomed to a relatively early failure, even though it was the only product on the market, in spite of how poor a product it was, it survived a period of time until it went the way of all bad products. The sport at that time had sort of enjoyed a kind of strong, relatively healthy image. We'd sort of gone through the surfer, rocker, war, newspaper sensationalism period, and surfers had sort of settled into a kind of a, almost tennis star, mold but it was to change fairly dramatically around about the time of flower power and LSD and San Francisco experience There was a sort of major influence brought to bear on the sport by people who were attempting to establish themselves as gurus of the sport. And one of these people weren't necessarily good service. In fact, suddenly we're out right forwards. And so the emphasis was taken away from the competitive side of things where you could actually prove yourself in the water and it was turned towards more of a so-called mystical lifestyle experience. And there are many people who doubt my version of what I've heard from then on, but for anybody who doubts, they should go and see a fantastic plastic machine. Because everything that ever went wrong with surfing is captured in that movie. Surfers were portrayed as complete alternative lifestyles the flower power drunk or dope thing was given greater emphasis than it deserved and at one stage it was said that if you weren't into dope you didn't know what you were doing in the waves anyway and that although many will look back and deny it now, was probably one of the worst things that ever happened to surfing. The peer group pressure was so intense that anybody young in surfing was automatically pressured to get into dope as well. And that took a good, the influence of that took a good four to six years to wear off. Needless to say, the end results were relatively catastrophic. And the history of surfing is quite perverted through that period. And much of the material written about surfing during that period is quite nonsensical. Meanwhile, in the background, surfing was still sort of clicking away as a sort of natural sport. It always was and always will be a way of a surfboard and a human. And the world contests were still being run. And luckily the dope culture began to separate out. It was obvious that if you wanted to win world contests, you actually had to be a good surfer. Much was made of the so-called birth of the modern style of surfing through 66 onwards But in reality, it was a fabrication by a small group of individuals seeking to exert influence over the history of the sport and the sport at the time. Almost an Australian surfing cultural revolution trying to wipe away what went before it.
created summary 5 - 9
All of the theories proposed ultimately fell by the wayside in competition. Some of the surviving mentors of the surfing cultural revolution to this day tend to ignore the fact that they still hadn't advanced their ideas to the point where they could actually win a world contest in 68 or 1970 with them. But would it also mean, Major, that because of this date situation, that they would find themselves very difficult to find sponsors to run the events? Well, they've managed to drive surfing down in public esteem and ultimately in everybody's esteem. by first we're using it and then abusing it and then not realising it, so it's still basically a simple thing. It sort of drove the sponsors away temporarily and made surfing a little bit unappealing. And what were you doing in the middle of all this? I was still maintaining that surfing was something that you did in the water and if you were good enough at it, you either enjoyed it first for yourself and then secondly for other people, watched it as judges and could score accordingly. You might do okay in a contest and luckily that's the way it ultimately went. people saw through the facade of the subculture lifestyle, nonsense, and settled down to saying, well, I think it's a lot of fun. And competition breeds progress as well as competitiveness. And look at surfers. They're actually a healthy fit sort of people on the outside. What a shame. They're not all the same on the inside in the head. So as surfing got into the 70s, a lot of the young guys who didn't like the dope subculture lifestyle nonsense sort of said, oh, well, this is not what we want. We want surfing as a sport. We've always loved it as. And we want to turn it into a fairly honorable thing again. and we'd like to maybe make a living doing it. And through the efforts of people like Mark Warren and the younger people of his time, Through the efforts of people like Graham Cassidy and the people that helped him surface of that period wanted to recapture the feeling of the early 60s when surfing was a sort of vibrant, exciting, sport, healthy, aggressive competition wise. rewarding just to be in it sort of thing and through the establishment of the surf about contest which was sponsored by Coca-Cola and 2SM surfing was sort of reborn in the public's image and The professionalism that evolved both for the surface as an income earning venture and through the judging and the organization has sort of continued since that time. Luckily the old guard, most of them dropped out of surfing for one reason or another and these newer people who had a sort of desire to bring it back to its former glory have actually done that. Not in 70 was the last world contest that I completed in here in Australia. I didn't go into any major contests after that time until several of the surf about events which I think occurred through the middle 70s, maybe 73, 74, 75, something like that. Around about 73, I started to hang glide. I had been sailing catamarines through the middle 60s. As a diversion, I started hang gliding as a diversion. I was still surfing, I didn't put all my energies into surfing competition. Luckily I was still invited into surfing competitions and that kept my interest up quite a bit. To this day the revival of all facets of surfing is so strong now and people have realised that in there are many ways to ride a surfboard so I'm still getting invitations to go into surfing contests. And the nickname of Midget Ferali, how did that come about? My first surfboard was 18 feet long. I weighed less than six stone at the time. I certainly appeared as a midget at the time. Surfboard started out very basically by comparison to what you see today with all the fins and little bumps in the rails. The simplest surfboard I imagine was the little plank of wood that somebody saved themselves on as they were either swept out to sea or survived a shipwreck. I'm pretty sure that, like most people, an ironing board might have been the first surfboard that somebody ever had 20 odd years ago. I know I used to ride an ironing board in the surf at Takapuni in New Zealand as a kid. And a lot of other kids had ironing boards too, wooden ironing boards. And I'm sure the Hawaiians who would have picked up on the simplest form would have had simple little bits of wood for catching waves. I know it was only the Aliki or the nobility that had long boards. And the greater the elite, the greater the board, he had a board so great that he didn't paddle it out himself because he would have been too tired to get it out there. He went out in a canoe and the slaves paddled it out for him and he only caught the wave and raided in. So by the time Cook got to the Hawaiian Islands and saw male and female riding side by side, surfboards must have gotten a bit smaller than the The 20 foot boards used by the Hawaiian Kings. The Duke used a heavy solid wood board here all those years ago. I've sort of seen that board many times and it's not a board I'd like to ride. The hollow racing style circle board which could still wave right were made very light, but basically only men were supposed to use them. They were 14, 16, 18 feet long, and I can't remember the weight of them, but I know it took a man to carry them. The 10, 11 foot hollow copies of the Hawaiian boards nearly reached the stage where a light person or a girl could carry them. Bolsa boards at around about 10 feet were the breakthrough. A girl could carry one of those, and that's when the possibilities of all people surfing really arose. By the time the first foam boards came along, not necessarily the polystyrene boards covered with epoxy, they were light, but they had so many structural problems. of one kind or another, that they were totally suitable for mass market.
created summary 10 - 14
By the time the urethane foam boards came along, the weight of the surfboard had been reduced, say from the early days, from something like 100 pounds down to something like 15 pounds and less. And many people experimented with shape and construction and not all of the changes that occur can be credited to any single individual. There was mostly a second C approach all the way down the line to design. One of the shortest boards I ever saw was a six foot six, Dave Jackman wrote it. made out of polystyrene and epoxy made for him by Greg McDonough. Very early in the piece. It could have even been before the Bolsheviks, I'm not sure. But maybe it wasn't. Maybe it was when we had phone boards covered with fiberglass. But I'm not sure. 1959, I think I... perhaps even made a boxer board that was down around six feet six. I abandoned it for all the obvious reasons at the time. Wave catching is, you couldn't ride big waves with it, etc, etc. As surfboards supposedly progressed and got smaller and smaller, more fins were attached. Basically, the reason was for nobility on the wave. Like dancing, surfing, change, it appeared to be simple at first and then it became complex and then it became specialised. Till today the modern surfboard can only be written by a very light person or a very athletic person. And the surfboard manufacturing industry has actually painted itself into a corner which it is now desperately trying to get out of. Because there aren't enough small light physically aggressive people to buy them. So we went from single fins to twins to triads to quads to five and have a five fin that works nicely on bigger waves. But basically All the changes that have been made at a time when, like that saying, nothing can stop an idea whose time has come, had come. And to an outsider, the variety of fins doesn't really make any sense, but it's actually the balance of the board on the wave that counts. And a single fin balance doesn't compare with a twin fin balance. A tri fin doesn't compare and a four fin. A quad fin doesn't compare and a penta fin doesn't compare. It's all a balance that can be achieved by reducing the size of each fin and its position on the board. And it is the rider who sort of understands this best. When the board is locked into a wave by one fin, it has that feeling of being locked in. when a board is held onto the wave face by a variety of small fins, it is only barely held onto the wave face. So the board is actually skating around and a more fluid style of surfing is achieved. More fluid, spontaneous, creative style of surfing is achieved. Modern skateboarding is totally different to the original skateboarding. Modern dancing is the same. It's more spontaneous. Much less predictable. It can go in any direction and it's quite delightful for the eye to watch. One of the disadvantages of very small boards is it can be maneuver limiting unless the surfer is very good and does have a wide range of maneuvers. However, today we find that a good surf shop will carry single fins, twin fins, tri-fins, four fins in small surfboards below six feet. We'll carry longer boards in the six foot, six to seven foot range for the surfer say five years ago. We'll carry eight foot to nine foot boards within the single fin tri-fin range for surfers of say ten or twelve years ago and In my factory now I manufacture boards at 9 foot 6 with single fins for surface of 20 years ago and a wave can be written with any of these boards, with a boogie board, a knee board, a belly board. a wave ski, a sailboard, a surf boat, a paddleboard, flippers only with the body. The good thing about the phase that surfing is going into now in 1984 is that the variety of surfing equipment is so broad and so interesting. Everybody wants to surf on some piece of equipment And it isn't necessary to have to ride what everybody else is riding. And one of the interesting things about today is that everybody has a son or a daughter who surfs. And since we do, since Australians all live on the coastline, it's only natural that they would want to use the ocean. And we are sort of achieving a sort of physical fitness through a sport having arrived at its present stage from those first visits by the Duke, where in fact the surfboard should be considered a health aid. The federal government should remove the 20% sales tax from surfboards. Unfortunately, price of a surfboard is inflated more than it necessarily should be. Surfing was originally considered an obscure eccentric type sport. It became a sub-cultural lifestyle sport but today surfing should be considered a healthy sport, a life-saving sport and It is today fitted so completely into everyday Australian life. Even though it might appear unique to people who don't do it, it is a very normal part of Australian life on the case then. In 1973 I came across Hangliding. It interested me greatly. It was like surfing. It was a unique sport and an individual sport. And it was the opening of the door to a new developing sport. I flew and manufactured hang riders for something like seven years up until 1970. I stopped building hang riders and sort of got interested in surfing and sailboarding again. I saw Hang Lighting Go from me, a pioneer type sport to kind of a relatively popular type sport that had a lot of ups and downs, but is sort of settling into the same kind of slot that sailplaning has settled into. I enjoyed it, learning to fly on the different beaches and the hills. I eventually drew the line when it came to the cross country part because it was going to take me away from the ocean. And I would spend a lot of time driving and not so much time flying. And about that time sailboarding was coming along. Sailboarding was, I've tried sailboarding many years ago in the windsurfing and I didn't enjoy it at all.
created summary 15 - 19
but then I could see the possibilities of sailboarding on a wave on a small board and I enjoyed the learning process of getting that going for myself and then building the equipment to do it. To the point where I eventually found that all the big waves I could never ride on a surfboard I had to paddle at the back of Longreef around the Bombora so I could ride on a sailboard and I have since found that the sailboarding and surfing actually complement each other. And when the weather is unfavorable for one, you can do the other. So when it's windy and miserable and the surf's being blown up big, you can go out on a sailboard. When it's clean and smooth and you've got perfect waves, you can go and ride a sailboard. Throughout my surfing career, people have always tried to categorise my surfing. And just when they think they've got me down, suddenly they turn around and look and I've changed. And the good thing about surfing is it does change. The style changes. A lot of people feel compelled to say that they came from a period where the star was such and such, I don't feel that way at all. I changed to sit the equipment, to sit the wave. A lot of people think there are ideal surfing breaks, I don't. I think that any surfing break is ideal provided that you can get what you want out of it. I learnt to ride in bad waves because I sharpened my reflexes in bad waves. When I had to learn to ride big waves, I had to go to Hawaii. When I had to learn to ride long, easy, soft, gentle waves, I went to Queensland. But I don't have any preference. I think variety is the important thing. Likewise, it is with your surfing style. You have to keep changing to stay interested. And one of the reasons I went and hang lighting on, I go sailboarding is because it's an alternative. So I can come back and look at surfing and say, This is still fun sort of thing, and I've got something to learn here. If I was going to teach somebody to surf, basically all I would say to them, well, there is the wave, this is the board that suits that wave, and all you have to do is get what you want out of that wave. If you only want to ride it in laying down, then do that, if that's what makes you happy. If you want to become a high-performance professional star surfing competitor, you've got to work hard at a great variety of maneuvers and become a total athlete. Some of the surface that I came across There are actually too many of them. It started with local type of watermen, like Dave Jackman writing the Queenscliff Bombora. It started with fellas who were good swimmers and good servers like Sugar Robinson from Harbour. It started with a lot of big wave riders in Hawaii who were fantastic physical athletes, and good wave riders as well. But also like Ricky Grign who could ride any huge wave in Hawaii. People like Pat Curran who could ride the biggest surf of the year, sit down and work out when the biggest wave would come, where to position yourself. People like Greg Noll who could not avoid going out on the biggest day of the year and trying to catch the biggest wave in Hawaii. People like Jose Angel who could paddle out at the wrong side of the Benzo pipeline and catch huge pipeline waves, ride huge sunset, ride huge wind here, ride any huge wave or try to There have been too many good surfers tonight. Australian surfers, they were really good. There's always been people like, some people you don't hear a lot of, like Bobby Brown was an exceptional surfer in bigger small waves. Later on, well-known surfers were actually more manufactured identities. And it isn't until the latest crop of surfers that I sort of feel that you're reaching a point where you're getting people who have actually been tested, their metals being tested in the fire. Mark Richards is an exception. an exceptional server. He has proven himself on contest results only. And now people like Tom Cowell are establishing themselves as terrific athletes and intelligent competitors. I think Professional contests now are actually a genuine yardstick of ability. And a lot of the fabricated stars of the late middle 60s, early 70s, you know, have a lot of trouble measuring it in any form at all. A lot of the fellows that I competed against who lost to me in the early days that were Hawaiians and Californians like Mike Dewey, you know, the guys who sort of did it with that good sportsman-like dignity, I really appreciate it. I learn a lot from them. You know, the people you know, who later went on to beat me, you know, guys like Oby Brown and... and, uh, surface like Ralph Van Ness, uh, you know, who did it with dignity and style. They really impressed me, uh, over the years sort of thing. And I think one of the things that I really like now is looking at that some of the young guys who have won, Mark Richards has done a lot with a lot of style, with a lot of dignity. The incredible thing about Mark Richards is he has been a fantastic competitor and in the real sense of the word he's competed in tiny waves. In Japan he's competed in huge waves in Hawaii and really if you sort of transfer that to any other sport you know he is if McEnroe had operated with the same dignity and achieved the same sort of reputation, he would be sort of regarded in a different light. And now that Tommy Carroll has sort of set himself on a path of pure athletic achievement and intelligence from going from country to country, You're stepping into a different realm there. It's hard to believe that Cassius Clay's mouth did anything for him other than to lead him into situations he should never have got into.
created summary 20 - 20
It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.
created final summary 21 - 21
========= reduced to 6 summaries 

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 0 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 0 of 6
 TEXT IN: Bernard Midget Farrelly, continuing take one, side two. At the first law contest, Ed Holt sponsored basically the organization, the setting up of the event, and some of the air travel, if not most of it, The prizes for the event were trophies. At that stage, there was no one even thought of giving money. As a prize, it was more or less unthinkable. Competing for money, the world was still thinking amateur, amateur, amateur. There was every amateur status. So it was a... An event for title and trophy. It was competition for men, junior men and women. Let's run at Manning Beach in May. Small search, good conditions, average wave height would have been around about four feet. Huge crowd turn up for the final. Newspapers put the crowds at 80,000. Possibly there are 50,000, I don't know. To be sure. For some reason, the contest went off in the spirit of success of the whole sport of the time. It was a huge success. And it fired off the first World Circuit contest. The next one was to be in Peru, the following year. California, USA, the following year. We missed a year till 68 where it went to Puerto Rico, 1970. It went back to Australia to the Torque area. But the mood and the success of the thing was incredibly high and incredibly strong. And it launched surfing on a very healthy path. It didn't mean that much to me. I was rather oblivious to it. Much the same as I've been oblivious to the Makaha contest and its later ramifications for the locals and for other people. I was unaware of the things occurring around me. somewhat sad, a lucky ability to see only the sport I was involved in and what I needed to do in the water. And I hadn't even begun to consider the politics of the sport the financial side of the school. I was only interested in surfing and building surfboards. So you were the in-state of business? At that stage I'd been building surfboards with kiosk surfboards and I was very keen to sort of become a specialised shaper, primitive in other words. and build a sort of a fairly model surfboard. And so at the time I thought Gordon Woods surfboards would be the perfect place for me to do that. And that was in 64. I did that for a few months with Gordon Woods, and then I discovered that I might as well be just doing the whole thing myself. One of the things that I learnt was I was an individual and the individuals always pay one kind of price or another and my price was I didn't fit in that easily with other people as far as my ambitions as to what I wanted to do and their ambitions and what they sort of wanted so you know that's probably too much of a primadonna so I probably had to go and do my own thing which is what I did. So I started building surfboards completely, I don't know, in 1964 up at Palm Beach in a boat ship. Did you also revolve in skateboard riding? Well, there are many facets to surfing at the time and skateboard riding was one of them. Like a lot of people I ride skateboards at the time. So I lent my name to the Australian surf skate manufacturing product called the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard. Which was a rather primitive product when you look at today's skateboards. We didn't have urethane wheels. We didn't have satisfactory ball bearing races. We didn't have satisfactory track assemblies. And we had a very basic wood top. the enterprises doomed to a relatively early failure, even though it was the only product on the market, in spite of how poor a product it was, it survived a period of time until it went the way of all bad products. The sport at that time had sort of enjoyed a kind of strong, relatively healthy image. We'd sort of gone through the surfer, rocker, war, newspaper sensationalism period, and surfers had sort of settled into a kind of a, almost tennis star, mold but it was to change fairly dramatically around about the time of flower power and LSD and San Francisco experience There was a sort of major influence brought to bear on the sport by people who were attempting to establish themselves as gurus of the sport. And one of these people weren't necessarily good service. In fact, suddenly we're out right forwards. And so the emphasis was taken away from the competitive side of things where you could actually prove yourself in the water and it was turned towards more of a so-called mystical lifestyle experience. And there are many people who doubt my version of what I've heard from then on, but for anybody who doubts, they should go and see a fantastic plastic machine. Because everything that ever went wrong with surfing is captured in that movie. Surfers were portrayed as complete alternative lifestyles the flower power drunk or dope thing was given greater emphasis than it deserved and at one stage it was said that if you weren't into dope you didn't know what you were doing in the waves anyway and that although many will look back and deny it now, was probably one of the worst things that ever happened to surfing. The peer group pressure was so intense that anybody young in surfing was automatically pressured to get into dope as well. And that took a good, the influence of that took a good four to six years to wear off. Needless to say, the end results were relatively catastrophic. And the history of surfing is quite perverted through that period. And much of the material written about surfing during that period is quite nonsensical. Meanwhile, in the background, surfing was still sort of clicking away as a sort of natural sport. It always was and always will be a way of a surfboard and a human. And the world contests were still being run. And luckily the dope culture began to separate out. It was obvious that if you wanted to win world contests, you actually had to be a good surfer. Much was made of the so-called birth of the modern style of surfing through 66 onwards But in reality, it was a fabrication by a small group of individuals seeking to exert influence over the history of the sport and the sport at the time. Almost an Australian surfing cultural revolution trying to wipe away what went before it.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing competitions, sponsored by Ed Holt, which were more focused on trophies than monetary prizes. The first contest at Manning Beach in May 1964 attracted a large crowd and was a success, leading to the establishment of the first World Circuit contest. Farrelly, unaware of the broader implications, focused on surfboard building, initially working with Gordon Woods before starting his own venture in Palm Beach. He also mentions his involvement with skateboarding, creating the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard, which, despite its rudimentary design, was the only product on the market for a time. Farrelly reflects on the shift in surfing culture during the 1960s, influenced by the counterculture movement, which led to a focus on the "mystical lifestyle" over competitive surfing. This period saw surfing's history tainted by the association with dope culture, which took years to dissipate. Despite these challenges, Farrelly notes that surfing remained a natural sport, with world contests continuing to be held.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 1 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 1 of 6
 TEXT IN: All of the theories proposed ultimately fell by the wayside in competition. Some of the surviving mentors of the surfing cultural revolution to this day tend to ignore the fact that they still hadn't advanced their ideas to the point where they could actually win a world contest in 68 or 1970 with them. But would it also mean, Major, that because of this date situation, that they would find themselves very difficult to find sponsors to run the events? Well, they've managed to drive surfing down in public esteem and ultimately in everybody's esteem. by first we're using it and then abusing it and then not realising it, so it's still basically a simple thing. It sort of drove the sponsors away temporarily and made surfing a little bit unappealing. And what were you doing in the middle of all this? I was still maintaining that surfing was something that you did in the water and if you were good enough at it, you either enjoyed it first for yourself and then secondly for other people, watched it as judges and could score accordingly. You might do okay in a contest and luckily that's the way it ultimately went. people saw through the facade of the subculture lifestyle, nonsense, and settled down to saying, well, I think it's a lot of fun. And competition breeds progress as well as competitiveness. And look at surfers. They're actually a healthy fit sort of people on the outside. What a shame. They're not all the same on the inside in the head. So as surfing got into the 70s, a lot of the young guys who didn't like the dope subculture lifestyle nonsense sort of said, oh, well, this is not what we want. We want surfing as a sport. We've always loved it as. And we want to turn it into a fairly honorable thing again. and we'd like to maybe make a living doing it. And through the efforts of people like Mark Warren and the younger people of his time, Through the efforts of people like Graham Cassidy and the people that helped him surface of that period wanted to recapture the feeling of the early 60s when surfing was a sort of vibrant, exciting, sport, healthy, aggressive competition wise. rewarding just to be in it sort of thing and through the establishment of the surf about contest which was sponsored by Coca-Cola and 2SM surfing was sort of reborn in the public's image and The professionalism that evolved both for the surface as an income earning venture and through the judging and the organization has sort of continued since that time. Luckily the old guard, most of them dropped out of surfing for one reason or another and these newer people who had a sort of desire to bring it back to its former glory have actually done that. Not in 70 was the last world contest that I completed in here in Australia. I didn't go into any major contests after that time until several of the surf about events which I think occurred through the middle 70s, maybe 73, 74, 75, something like that. Around about 73, I started to hang glide. I had been sailing catamarines through the middle 60s. As a diversion, I started hang gliding as a diversion. I was still surfing, I didn't put all my energies into surfing competition. Luckily I was still invited into surfing competitions and that kept my interest up quite a bit. To this day the revival of all facets of surfing is so strong now and people have realised that in there are many ways to ride a surfboard so I'm still getting invitations to go into surfing contests. And the nickname of Midget Ferali, how did that come about? My first surfboard was 18 feet long. I weighed less than six stone at the time. I certainly appeared as a midget at the time. Surfboard started out very basically by comparison to what you see today with all the fins and little bumps in the rails. The simplest surfboard I imagine was the little plank of wood that somebody saved themselves on as they were either swept out to sea or survived a shipwreck. I'm pretty sure that, like most people, an ironing board might have been the first surfboard that somebody ever had 20 odd years ago. I know I used to ride an ironing board in the surf at Takapuni in New Zealand as a kid. And a lot of other kids had ironing boards too, wooden ironing boards. And I'm sure the Hawaiians who would have picked up on the simplest form would have had simple little bits of wood for catching waves. I know it was only the Aliki or the nobility that had long boards. And the greater the elite, the greater the board, he had a board so great that he didn't paddle it out himself because he would have been too tired to get it out there. He went out in a canoe and the slaves paddled it out for him and he only caught the wave and raided in. So by the time Cook got to the Hawaiian Islands and saw male and female riding side by side, surfboards must have gotten a bit smaller than the The 20 foot boards used by the Hawaiian Kings. The Duke used a heavy solid wood board here all those years ago. I've sort of seen that board many times and it's not a board I'd like to ride. The hollow racing style circle board which could still wave right were made very light, but basically only men were supposed to use them. They were 14, 16, 18 feet long, and I can't remember the weight of them, but I know it took a man to carry them. The 10, 11 foot hollow copies of the Hawaiian boards nearly reached the stage where a light person or a girl could carry them. Bolsa boards at around about 10 feet were the breakthrough. A girl could carry one of those, and that's when the possibilities of all people surfing really arose. By the time the first foam boards came along, not necessarily the polystyrene boards covered with epoxy, they were light, but they had so many structural problems. of one kind or another, that they were totally suitable for mass market.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the evolution of surfing from a subcultural phenomenon to a respected sport. Initially, surfing was seen as a lifestyle, but it faced challenges in gaining sponsorship and public esteem due to its association with a subculture. However, by the 1970s, a new generation of surfers sought to redefine the sport, focusing on its healthy, competitive aspects. This shift was partly due to the efforts of individuals like Mark Warren and Graham Cassidy, who aimed to restore surfing's former glory. Farrelly, who had been involved in surfing competitions since the 1960s, continued to participate despite the sport's changing dynamics. His nickname, "Midget," originated from his small stature and the use of a short surfboard in his youth. Farrelly also discusses the progression of surfboards from heavy, long boards used by Hawaiian royalty to the lightweight, hollow boards that made surfing accessible to a broader audience, including women. The transition to foam boards marked a significant milestone, making surfing more practical for the general public. Farrelly's personal journey through hang gliding and his continued invitations to surfing contests highlight the enduring appeal and revival of surfing as a sport.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 2 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 2 of 6
 TEXT IN: By the time the urethane foam boards came along, the weight of the surfboard had been reduced, say from the early days, from something like 100 pounds down to something like 15 pounds and less. And many people experimented with shape and construction and not all of the changes that occur can be credited to any single individual. There was mostly a second C approach all the way down the line to design. One of the shortest boards I ever saw was a six foot six, Dave Jackman wrote it. made out of polystyrene and epoxy made for him by Greg McDonough. Very early in the piece. It could have even been before the Bolsheviks, I'm not sure. But maybe it wasn't. Maybe it was when we had phone boards covered with fiberglass. But I'm not sure. 1959, I think I... perhaps even made a boxer board that was down around six feet six. I abandoned it for all the obvious reasons at the time. Wave catching is, you couldn't ride big waves with it, etc, etc. As surfboards supposedly progressed and got smaller and smaller, more fins were attached. Basically, the reason was for nobility on the wave. Like dancing, surfing, change, it appeared to be simple at first and then it became complex and then it became specialised. Till today the modern surfboard can only be written by a very light person or a very athletic person. And the surfboard manufacturing industry has actually painted itself into a corner which it is now desperately trying to get out of. Because there aren't enough small light physically aggressive people to buy them. So we went from single fins to twins to triads to quads to five and have a five fin that works nicely on bigger waves. But basically All the changes that have been made at a time when, like that saying, nothing can stop an idea whose time has come, had come. And to an outsider, the variety of fins doesn't really make any sense, but it's actually the balance of the board on the wave that counts. And a single fin balance doesn't compare with a twin fin balance. A tri fin doesn't compare and a four fin. A quad fin doesn't compare and a penta fin doesn't compare. It's all a balance that can be achieved by reducing the size of each fin and its position on the board. And it is the rider who sort of understands this best. When the board is locked into a wave by one fin, it has that feeling of being locked in. when a board is held onto the wave face by a variety of small fins, it is only barely held onto the wave face. So the board is actually skating around and a more fluid style of surfing is achieved. More fluid, spontaneous, creative style of surfing is achieved. Modern skateboarding is totally different to the original skateboarding. Modern dancing is the same. It's more spontaneous. Much less predictable. It can go in any direction and it's quite delightful for the eye to watch. One of the disadvantages of very small boards is it can be maneuver limiting unless the surfer is very good and does have a wide range of maneuvers. However, today we find that a good surf shop will carry single fins, twin fins, tri-fins, four fins in small surfboards below six feet. We'll carry longer boards in the six foot, six to seven foot range for the surfer say five years ago. We'll carry eight foot to nine foot boards within the single fin tri-fin range for surfers of say ten or twelve years ago and In my factory now I manufacture boards at 9 foot 6 with single fins for surface of 20 years ago and a wave can be written with any of these boards, with a boogie board, a knee board, a belly board. a wave ski, a sailboard, a surf boat, a paddleboard, flippers only with the body. The good thing about the phase that surfing is going into now in 1984 is that the variety of surfing equipment is so broad and so interesting. Everybody wants to surf on some piece of equipment And it isn't necessary to have to ride what everybody else is riding. And one of the interesting things about today is that everybody has a son or a daughter who surfs. And since we do, since Australians all live on the coastline, it's only natural that they would want to use the ocean. And we are sort of achieving a sort of physical fitness through a sport having arrived at its present stage from those first visits by the Duke, where in fact the surfboard should be considered a health aid. The federal government should remove the 20% sales tax from surfboards. Unfortunately, price of a surfboard is inflated more than it necessarily should be. Surfing was originally considered an obscure eccentric type sport. It became a sub-cultural lifestyle sport but today surfing should be considered a healthy sport, a life-saving sport and It is today fitted so completely into everyday Australian life. Even though it might appear unique to people who don't do it, it is a very normal part of Australian life on the case then. In 1973 I came across Hangliding. It interested me greatly. It was like surfing. It was a unique sport and an individual sport. And it was the opening of the door to a new developing sport. I flew and manufactured hang riders for something like seven years up until 1970. I stopped building hang riders and sort of got interested in surfing and sailboarding again. I saw Hang Lighting Go from me, a pioneer type sport to kind of a relatively popular type sport that had a lot of ups and downs, but is sort of settling into the same kind of slot that sailplaning has settled into. I enjoyed it, learning to fly on the different beaches and the hills. I eventually drew the line when it came to the cross country part because it was going to take me away from the ocean. And I would spend a lot of time driving and not so much time flying. And about that time sailboarding was coming along. Sailboarding was, I've tried sailboarding many years ago in the windsurfing and I didn't enjoy it at all.
 SUMMARY: The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the evolution of surfboard design and the broadening of surfing equipment. Farrelly notes the significant reduction in surfboard weight from early days to the introduction of urethane foam boards, which dropped from around 100 pounds to less than 15 pounds. He acknowledges that while not all design changes can be attributed to a single person, there was a trend towards shorter boards, with one of the shortest being a six-foot-six board made by Greg McDonough. The progression of surfboard design also saw the addition of more fins for better wave control, leading to a variety of fin setups from single fins to quads and penta fins. Farrelly explains that the balance and maneuverability of the board are crucial, with smaller fins allowing for a more fluid and spontaneous surfing style. He also touches on the diversification of surfing equipment, from boogie boards to sailboards, and the increasing popularity of surfing among younger generations. Farrelly expresses a desire for the federal government to remove the sales tax on surfboards, citing the sport's health benefits and its integration into Australian culture. He briefly mentions his past involvement with hanglifting and sailboarding, noting the sport's growth and his eventual focus back on surfing.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 3 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 3 of 6
 TEXT IN: but then I could see the possibilities of sailboarding on a wave on a small board and I enjoyed the learning process of getting that going for myself and then building the equipment to do it. To the point where I eventually found that all the big waves I could never ride on a surfboard I had to paddle at the back of Longreef around the Bombora so I could ride on a sailboard and I have since found that the sailboarding and surfing actually complement each other. And when the weather is unfavorable for one, you can do the other. So when it's windy and miserable and the surf's being blown up big, you can go out on a sailboard. When it's clean and smooth and you've got perfect waves, you can go and ride a sailboard. Throughout my surfing career, people have always tried to categorise my surfing. And just when they think they've got me down, suddenly they turn around and look and I've changed. And the good thing about surfing is it does change. The style changes. A lot of people feel compelled to say that they came from a period where the star was such and such, I don't feel that way at all. I changed to sit the equipment, to sit the wave. A lot of people think there are ideal surfing breaks, I don't. I think that any surfing break is ideal provided that you can get what you want out of it. I learnt to ride in bad waves because I sharpened my reflexes in bad waves. When I had to learn to ride big waves, I had to go to Hawaii. When I had to learn to ride long, easy, soft, gentle waves, I went to Queensland. But I don't have any preference. I think variety is the important thing. Likewise, it is with your surfing style. You have to keep changing to stay interested. And one of the reasons I went and hang lighting on, I go sailboarding is because it's an alternative. So I can come back and look at surfing and say, This is still fun sort of thing, and I've got something to learn here. If I was going to teach somebody to surf, basically all I would say to them, well, there is the wave, this is the board that suits that wave, and all you have to do is get what you want out of that wave. If you only want to ride it in laying down, then do that, if that's what makes you happy. If you want to become a high-performance professional star surfing competitor, you've got to work hard at a great variety of maneuvers and become a total athlete. Some of the surface that I came across There are actually too many of them. It started with local type of watermen, like Dave Jackman writing the Queenscliff Bombora. It started with fellas who were good swimmers and good servers like Sugar Robinson from Harbour. It started with a lot of big wave riders in Hawaii who were fantastic physical athletes, and good wave riders as well. But also like Ricky Grign who could ride any huge wave in Hawaii. People like Pat Curran who could ride the biggest surf of the year, sit down and work out when the biggest wave would come, where to position yourself. People like Greg Noll who could not avoid going out on the biggest day of the year and trying to catch the biggest wave in Hawaii. People like Jose Angel who could paddle out at the wrong side of the Benzo pipeline and catch huge pipeline waves, ride huge sunset, ride huge wind here, ride any huge wave or try to There have been too many good surfers tonight. Australian surfers, they were really good. There's always been people like, some people you don't hear a lot of, like Bobby Brown was an exceptional surfer in bigger small waves. Later on, well-known surfers were actually more manufactured identities. And it isn't until the latest crop of surfers that I sort of feel that you're reaching a point where you're getting people who have actually been tested, their metals being tested in the fire. Mark Richards is an exception. an exceptional server. He has proven himself on contest results only. And now people like Tom Cowell are establishing themselves as terrific athletes and intelligent competitors. I think Professional contests now are actually a genuine yardstick of ability. And a lot of the fabricated stars of the late middle 60s, early 70s, you know, have a lot of trouble measuring it in any form at all. A lot of the fellows that I competed against who lost to me in the early days that were Hawaiians and Californians like Mike Dewey, you know, the guys who sort of did it with that good sportsman-like dignity, I really appreciate it. I learn a lot from them. You know, the people you know, who later went on to beat me, you know, guys like Oby Brown and... and, uh, surface like Ralph Van Ness, uh, you know, who did it with dignity and style. They really impressed me, uh, over the years sort of thing. And I think one of the things that I really like now is looking at that some of the young guys who have won, Mark Richards has done a lot with a lot of style, with a lot of dignity. The incredible thing about Mark Richards is he has been a fantastic competitor and in the real sense of the word he's competed in tiny waves. In Japan he's competed in huge waves in Hawaii and really if you sort of transfer that to any other sport you know he is if McEnroe had operated with the same dignity and achieved the same sort of reputation, he would be sort of regarded in a different light. And now that Tommy Carroll has sort of set himself on a path of pure athletic achievement and intelligence from going from country to country, You're stepping into a different realm there. It's hard to believe that Cassius Clay's mouth did anything for him other than to lead him into situations he should never have got into.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his diverse experiences in surfing and sailboarding, highlighting the evolution of his surfing style and the changing nature of the sport. He emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. Farrelly reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. He praises Mark Richards for his competitive style and dignity, and looks forward to the emergence of young surfers like Tommy Carroll. Farrelly also touches on the influence of personalities like Cassius Clay in sports, suggesting that reputation and dignity are crucial. Overall, Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 4 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 4 of 6
 TEXT IN: It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.
 SUMMARY: The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the state of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if surfers maintain the sport's essence. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that, when combined with an intelligent mind, can evoke the same awe as historic explorers like Cook experienced upon witnessing the waves of the sandwich islands or Polynesia. The conversation suggests that surfing's allure lies in its natural appeal and the thrill of mastering the waves, provided it remains true to its roots and avoids being manipulated by managers.


It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.

The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the essence of competitive surfing, highlighting its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport maintains its core values.

getSummary bottomLevel true seq 5 instructions: Summarise the provided transcript of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 15 words. Base the summary only on the provided transcript text.  Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the transcript without any further commentary.
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 5 of 6
 TEXT IN: Man having some limited control over the moving ocean, and he's bored, and he's bored.
 SUMMARY: Man bored with limited control over the ocean.


 * * * * * processChunksIntoSummaries HIERARCHY LENGTH 2 chunks.length 6:


neighbours
 Chunk 0 ------ 0.9333
 Chunk 1 0.9333 0.8795
 Chunk 2 0.8795 0.8800
 Chunk 3 0.8800 0.8752
 Chunk 4 0.8752 0.5403
 Chunk 5 0.5403 -----
created summary 0 - 3
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing competitions, sponsored by Ed Holt, which were more focused on trophies than monetary prizes. The first contest at Manning Beach in May 1964 attracted a large crowd and was a success, leading to the establishment of the first World Circuit contest. Farrelly, unaware of the broader implications, focused on surfboard building, initially working with Gordon Woods before starting his own venture in Palm Beach. He also mentions his involvement with skateboarding, creating the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard, which, despite its rudimentary design, was the only product on the market for a time. Farrelly reflects on the shift in surfing culture during the 1960s, influenced by the counterculture movement, which led to a focus on the "mystical lifestyle" over competitive surfing. This period saw surfing's history tainted by the association with dope culture, which took years to dissipate. Despite these challenges, Farrelly notes that surfing remained a natural sport, with world contests continuing to be held. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the evolution of surfing from a subcultural phenomenon to a respected sport. Initially, surfing was seen as a lifestyle, but it faced challenges in gaining sponsorship and public esteem due to its association with a subculture. However, by the 1970s, a new generation of surfers sought to redefine the sport, focusing on its healthy, competitive aspects. This shift was partly due to the efforts of individuals like Mark Warren and Graham Cassidy, who aimed to restore surfing's former glory. Farrelly, who had been involved in surfing competitions since the 1960s, continued to participate despite the sport's changing dynamics. His nickname, "Midget," originated from his small stature and the use of a short surfboard in his youth. Farrelly also discusses the progression of surfboards from heavy, long boards used by Hawaiian royalty to the lightweight, hollow boards that made surfing accessible to a broader audience, including women. The transition to foam boards marked a significant milestone, making surfing more practical for the general public. Farrelly's personal journey through hang gliding and his continued invitations to surfing contests highlight the enduring appeal and revival of surfing as a sport. The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the evolution of surfboard design and the broadening of surfing equipment. Farrelly notes the significant reduction in surfboard weight from early days to the introduction of urethane foam boards, which dropped from around 100 pounds to less than 15 pounds. He acknowledges that while not all design changes can be attributed to a single person, there was a trend towards shorter boards, with one of the shortest being a six-foot-six board made by Greg McDonough. The progression of surfboard design also saw the addition of more fins for better wave control, leading to a variety of fin setups from single fins to quads and penta fins. Farrelly explains that the balance and maneuverability of the board are crucial, with smaller fins allowing for a more fluid and spontaneous surfing style. He also touches on the diversification of surfing equipment, from boogie boards to sailboards, and the increasing popularity of surfing among younger generations. Farrelly expresses a desire for the federal government to remove the sales tax on surfboards, citing the sport's health benefits and its integration into Australian culture. He briefly mentions his past involvement with hanglifting and sailboarding, noting the sport's growth and his eventual focus back on surfing. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his diverse experiences in surfing and sailboarding, highlighting the evolution of his surfing style and the changing nature of the sport. He emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. Farrelly reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. He praises Mark Richards for his competitive style and dignity, and looks forward to the emergence of young surfers like Tommy Carroll. Farrelly also touches on the influence of personalities like Cassius Clay in sports, suggesting that reputation and dignity are crucial. Overall, Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.
created final summary 4 - 5
========= reduced to 2 summaries 

getSummary bottomLevel false seq 0 instructions: Summarise the provided description of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided text.   Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the content without any further commentary. 
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 0 of 2
 TEXT IN: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing competitions, sponsored by Ed Holt, which were more focused on trophies than monetary prizes. The first contest at Manning Beach in May 1964 attracted a large crowd and was a success, leading to the establishment of the first World Circuit contest. Farrelly, unaware of the broader implications, focused on surfboard building, initially working with Gordon Woods before starting his own venture in Palm Beach. He also mentions his involvement with skateboarding, creating the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard, which, despite its rudimentary design, was the only product on the market for a time. Farrelly reflects on the shift in surfing culture during the 1960s, influenced by the counterculture movement, which led to a focus on the "mystical lifestyle" over competitive surfing. This period saw surfing's history tainted by the association with dope culture, which took years to dissipate. Despite these challenges, Farrelly notes that surfing remained a natural sport, with world contests continuing to be held. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the evolution of surfing from a subcultural phenomenon to a respected sport. Initially, surfing was seen as a lifestyle, but it faced challenges in gaining sponsorship and public esteem due to its association with a subculture. However, by the 1970s, a new generation of surfers sought to redefine the sport, focusing on its healthy, competitive aspects. This shift was partly due to the efforts of individuals like Mark Warren and Graham Cassidy, who aimed to restore surfing's former glory. Farrelly, who had been involved in surfing competitions since the 1960s, continued to participate despite the sport's changing dynamics. His nickname, "Midget," originated from his small stature and the use of a short surfboard in his youth. Farrelly also discusses the progression of surfboards from heavy, long boards used by Hawaiian royalty to the lightweight, hollow boards that made surfing accessible to a broader audience, including women. The transition to foam boards marked a significant milestone, making surfing more practical for the general public. Farrelly's personal journey through hang gliding and his continued invitations to surfing contests highlight the enduring appeal and revival of surfing as a sport. The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the evolution of surfboard design and the broadening of surfing equipment. Farrelly notes the significant reduction in surfboard weight from early days to the introduction of urethane foam boards, which dropped from around 100 pounds to less than 15 pounds. He acknowledges that while not all design changes can be attributed to a single person, there was a trend towards shorter boards, with one of the shortest being a six-foot-six board made by Greg McDonough. The progression of surfboard design also saw the addition of more fins for better wave control, leading to a variety of fin setups from single fins to quads and penta fins. Farrelly explains that the balance and maneuverability of the board are crucial, with smaller fins allowing for a more fluid and spontaneous surfing style. He also touches on the diversification of surfing equipment, from boogie boards to sailboards, and the increasing popularity of surfing among younger generations. Farrelly expresses a desire for the federal government to remove the sales tax on surfboards, citing the sport's health benefits and its integration into Australian culture. He briefly mentions his past involvement with hanglifting and sailboarding, noting the sport's growth and his eventual focus back on surfing. Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his diverse experiences in surfing and sailboarding, highlighting the evolution of his surfing style and the changing nature of the sport. He emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. Farrelly reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. He praises Mark Richards for his competitive style and dignity, and looks forward to the emergence of young surfers like Tommy Carroll. Farrelly also touches on the influence of personalities like Cassius Clay in sports, suggesting that reputation and dignity are crucial. Overall, Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing competitions, sponsored by Ed Holt, which were more focused on trophies than monetary prizes. The first contest at Manning Beach in May 1964 was a success, leading to the establishment of the first World Circuit contest. Farrelly, unaware of the broader implications, focused on surfboard building, initially working with Gordon Woods before starting his own venture in Palm Beach. He also mentions his involvement with skateboarding, creating the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard, which was the only product on the market for a time. Farrelly reflects on the shift in surfing culture during the 1960s, influenced by the counterculture movement, which led to a focus on the "mystical lifestyle" over competitive surfing. Despite challenges, surfing remained a natural sport, with world contests continuing to be held. Farrelly notes the evolution of surfing from a subcultural phenomenon to a respected sport. He discusses the progression of surfboard design and the broadening of surfing equipment. Farrelly emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. He reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.

getSummary bottomLevel false seq 1 instructions: Summarise the provided description of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided text.   Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the content without any further commentary. 
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 1 of 2
 TEXT IN: The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the state of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if surfers maintain the sport's essence. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that, when combined with an intelligent mind, can evoke the same awe as historic explorers like Cook experienced upon witnessing the waves of the sandwich islands or Polynesia. The conversation suggests that surfing's allure lies in its natural appeal and the thrill of mastering the waves, provided it remains true to its roots and avoids being manipulated by managers.


It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.

The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the essence of competitive surfing, highlighting its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport maintains its core values. Man bored with limited control over the ocean.
 SUMMARY: In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the essence of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport remains true to its roots. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that can evoke awe similar to historic explorers. He stresses the importance of surfers maintaining the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers. Farrelly believes that if surfers stay true to the basics and do not succumb to publicity, competitive surfing can regain its glamorous reputation. He highlights the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration and admiration. Farrelly's perspective suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to preserve its purity and connection to the natural world.


 * * * * * processChunksIntoSummaries HIERARCHY LENGTH 3 chunks.length 2:


neighbours
 Chunk 0 ------ 0.8718
 Chunk 1 0.8718 -----
created final summary 0 - 1
========= reduced to 1 summaries 

getSummary bottomLevel false seq 0 instructions: Summarise the provided description of an interview with the title: "Bernard "Midget" Farrelly interviewed by Neil Bennetts." in less than 200 words. Base the summary only on the provided text.   Do not provide a preamble or a postscript. Do not start the summary with "Summary:" or any other text. Do not end the summary with a word count or any other text. Just summarise the content without any further commentary. 
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
getInterview http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2Interview/select?wt=json&rows=1&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=interviewId,title,subtitle,collection,interviewee,interviewer,sponsor,yyyymmdd,loadedBy,loadedDate,summary,comment,embedding
getInterview status: 200
GOT IV [object Object]
getSessionsAndParts iv:nla.obj-203494363 session count:2
about to get http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2SessionPart/select?wt=json&rows=9999&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=sessionId,sessionSeq,partType,partId,startcs,endcs,content,sessionTranscript,embedding,indexToLowerContent&sort=sessionSeq asc, partId asc
Getting summary for sumCHunk seq 0 of 1
 TEXT IN: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing competitions, sponsored by Ed Holt, which were more focused on trophies than monetary prizes. The first contest at Manning Beach in May 1964 was a success, leading to the establishment of the first World Circuit contest. Farrelly, unaware of the broader implications, focused on surfboard building, initially working with Gordon Woods before starting his own venture in Palm Beach. He also mentions his involvement with skateboarding, creating the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard, which was the only product on the market for a time. Farrelly reflects on the shift in surfing culture during the 1960s, influenced by the counterculture movement, which led to a focus on the "mystical lifestyle" over competitive surfing. Despite challenges, surfing remained a natural sport, with world contests continuing to be held. Farrelly notes the evolution of surfing from a subcultural phenomenon to a respected sport. He discusses the progression of surfboard design and the broadening of surfing equipment. Farrelly emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. He reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey. In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the essence of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport remains true to its roots. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that can evoke awe similar to historic explorers. He stresses the importance of surfers maintaining the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers. Farrelly believes that if surfers stay true to the basics and do not succumb to publicity, competitive surfing can regain its glamorous reputation. He highlights the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration and admiration. Farrelly's perspective suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to preserve its purity and connection to the natural world.
 SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.

 - - - - chunk hierarchy summary:

===> Level 0 summary count: 22

 Level 0 Summary 0 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 205 time 238-15597
SOURCE TEXT:
Bernard Midget Farrelly, continuing take one, side two. At the first law contest, Ed Holt sponsored basically the organization, the setting up of the event, and some of the air travel, if not most of it, The prizes for the event were trophies. At that stage, there was no one even thought of giving money. As a prize, it was more or less unthinkable. Competing for money, the world was still thinking amateur, amateur, amateur. There was every amateur status. So it was a... An event for title and trophy. It was competition for men, junior men and women. Let's run at Manning Beach in May. Small search, good conditions, average wave height would have been around about four feet. Huge crowd turn up for the final. Newspapers put the crowds at 80,000. Possibly there are 50,000, I don't know. To be sure. For some reason, the contest went off in the spirit of success of the whole sport of the time. It was a huge success. And it fired off the first World Circuit contest. The next one was to be in Peru, the following year. California, USA, the following year. We missed a year till 68 where it went to Puerto Rico, 1970.

 Level 0 Summary 1 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 220 time 15747-29173
SOURCE TEXT:
It went back to Australia to the Torque area. But the mood and the success of the thing was incredibly high and incredibly strong. And it launched surfing on a very healthy path. It didn't mean that much to me. I was rather oblivious to it. Much the same as I've been oblivious to the Makaha contest and its later ramifications for the locals and for other people. I was unaware of the things occurring around me. somewhat sad, a lucky ability to see only the sport I was involved in and what I needed to do in the water. And I hadn't even begun to consider the politics of the sport the financial side of the school. I was only interested in surfing and building surfboards. So you were the in-state of business? At that stage I'd been building surfboards with kiosk surfboards and I was very keen to sort of become a specialised shaper, primitive in other words. and build a sort of a fairly model surfboard. And so at the time I thought Gordon Woods surfboards would be the perfect place for me to do that. And that was in 64. I did that for a few months with Gordon Woods, and then I discovered that I might as well be just doing the whole thing myself.

 Level 0 Summary 2 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 234 time 29326-39579
SOURCE TEXT:
One of the things that I learnt was I was an individual and the individuals always pay one kind of price or another and my price was I didn't fit in that easily with other people as far as my ambitions as to what I wanted to do and their ambitions and what they sort of wanted so you know that's probably too much of a primadonna so I probably had to go and do my own thing which is what I did. So I started building surfboards completely, I don't know, in 1964 up at Palm Beach in a boat ship. Did you also revolve in skateboard riding? Well, there are many facets to surfing at the time and skateboard riding was one of them. Like a lot of people I ride skateboards at the time. So I lent my name to the Australian surf skate manufacturing product called the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard. Which was a rather primitive product when you look at today's skateboards. We didn't have urethane wheels. We didn't have satisfactory ball bearing races. We didn't have satisfactory track assemblies. And we had a very basic wood top. the enterprises doomed to a relatively early failure, even though it was the only product on the market, in spite of how poor a product it was, it survived a period of time until it went the way of all bad products.

 Level 0 Summary 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 40173-58901
SOURCE TEXT:
The sport at that time had sort of enjoyed a kind of strong, relatively healthy image. We'd sort of gone through the surfer, rocker, war, newspaper sensationalism period, and surfers had sort of settled into a kind of a, almost tennis star, mold but it was to change fairly dramatically around about the time of flower power and LSD and San Francisco experience There was a sort of major influence brought to bear on the sport by people who were attempting to establish themselves as gurus of the sport. And one of these people weren't necessarily good service. In fact, suddenly we're out right forwards. And so the emphasis was taken away from the competitive side of things where you could actually prove yourself in the water and it was turned towards more of a so-called mystical lifestyle experience. And there are many people who doubt my version of what I've heard from then on, but for anybody who doubts, they should go and see a fantastic plastic machine. Because everything that ever went wrong with surfing is captured in that movie. Surfers were portrayed as complete alternative lifestyles the flower power drunk or dope thing was given greater emphasis than it deserved and at one stage it was said that if you weren't into dope you didn't know what you were doing in the waves anyway and that although many will look back and deny it now, was probably one of the worst things that ever happened to surfing.

 Level 0 Summary 4 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 201 time 58989-72020
SOURCE TEXT:
The peer group pressure was so intense that anybody young in surfing was automatically pressured to get into dope as well. And that took a good, the influence of that took a good four to six years to wear off. Needless to say, the end results were relatively catastrophic. And the history of surfing is quite perverted through that period. And much of the material written about surfing during that period is quite nonsensical. Meanwhile, in the background, surfing was still sort of clicking away as a sort of natural sport. It always was and always will be a way of a surfboard and a human. And the world contests were still being run. And luckily the dope culture began to separate out. It was obvious that if you wanted to win world contests, you actually had to be a good surfer. Much was made of the so-called birth of the modern style of surfing through 66 onwards But in reality, it was a fabrication by a small group of individuals seeking to exert influence over the history of the sport and the sport at the time. Almost an Australian surfing cultural revolution trying to wipe away what went before it.

 Level 0 Summary 5 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 200 time 72434-84526
SOURCE TEXT:
All of the theories proposed ultimately fell by the wayside in competition. Some of the surviving mentors of the surfing cultural revolution to this day tend to ignore the fact that they still hadn't advanced their ideas to the point where they could actually win a world contest in 68 or 1970 with them. But would it also mean, Major, that because of this date situation, that they would find themselves very difficult to find sponsors to run the events? Well, they've managed to drive surfing down in public esteem and ultimately in everybody's esteem. by first we're using it and then abusing it and then not realising it, so it's still basically a simple thing. It sort of drove the sponsors away temporarily and made surfing a little bit unappealing. And what were you doing in the middle of all this? I was still maintaining that surfing was something that you did in the water and if you were good enough at it, you either enjoyed it first for yourself and then secondly for other people, watched it as judges and could score accordingly. You might do okay in a contest and luckily that's the way it ultimately went.

 Level 0 Summary 6 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 243 time 84729-99421
SOURCE TEXT:
people saw through the facade of the subculture lifestyle, nonsense, and settled down to saying, well, I think it's a lot of fun. And competition breeds progress as well as competitiveness. And look at surfers. They're actually a healthy fit sort of people on the outside. What a shame. They're not all the same on the inside in the head. So as surfing got into the 70s, a lot of the young guys who didn't like the dope subculture lifestyle nonsense sort of said, oh, well, this is not what we want. We want surfing as a sport. We've always loved it as. And we want to turn it into a fairly honorable thing again. and we'd like to maybe make a living doing it. And through the efforts of people like Mark Warren and the younger people of his time, Through the efforts of people like Graham Cassidy and the people that helped him surface of that period wanted to recapture the feeling of the early 60s when surfing was a sort of vibrant, exciting, sport, healthy, aggressive competition wise. rewarding just to be in it sort of thing and through the establishment of the surf about contest which was sponsored by Coca-Cola and 2SM surfing was sort of reborn in the public's image and The professionalism that evolved both for the surface as an income earning venture and through the judging and the organization has sort of continued since that time.

 Level 0 Summary 7 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 207 time 99505-111932
SOURCE TEXT:
Luckily the old guard, most of them dropped out of surfing for one reason or another and these newer people who had a sort of desire to bring it back to its former glory have actually done that. Not in 70 was the last world contest that I completed in here in Australia. I didn't go into any major contests after that time until several of the surf about events which I think occurred through the middle 70s, maybe 73, 74, 75, something like that. Around about 73, I started to hang glide. I had been sailing catamarines through the middle 60s. As a diversion, I started hang gliding as a diversion. I was still surfing, I didn't put all my energies into surfing competition. Luckily I was still invited into surfing competitions and that kept my interest up quite a bit. To this day the revival of all facets of surfing is so strong now and people have realised that in there are many ways to ride a surfboard so I'm still getting invitations to go into surfing contests. And the nickname of Midget Ferali, how did that come about? My first surfboard was 18 feet long. I weighed less than six stone at the time.

 Level 0 Summary 8 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 212 time 112104-121217
SOURCE TEXT:
I certainly appeared as a midget at the time. Surfboard started out very basically by comparison to what you see today with all the fins and little bumps in the rails. The simplest surfboard I imagine was the little plank of wood that somebody saved themselves on as they were either swept out to sea or survived a shipwreck. I'm pretty sure that, like most people, an ironing board might have been the first surfboard that somebody ever had 20 odd years ago. I know I used to ride an ironing board in the surf at Takapuni in New Zealand as a kid. And a lot of other kids had ironing boards too, wooden ironing boards. And I'm sure the Hawaiians who would have picked up on the simplest form would have had simple little bits of wood for catching waves. I know it was only the Aliki or the nobility that had long boards. And the greater the elite, the greater the board, he had a board so great that he didn't paddle it out himself because he would have been too tired to get it out there. He went out in a canoe and the slaves paddled it out for him and he only caught the wave and raided in.

 Level 0 Summary 9 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 208 time 121375-131905
SOURCE TEXT:
So by the time Cook got to the Hawaiian Islands and saw male and female riding side by side, surfboards must have gotten a bit smaller than the The 20 foot boards used by the Hawaiian Kings. The Duke used a heavy solid wood board here all those years ago. I've sort of seen that board many times and it's not a board I'd like to ride. The hollow racing style circle board which could still wave right were made very light, but basically only men were supposed to use them. They were 14, 16, 18 feet long, and I can't remember the weight of them, but I know it took a man to carry them. The 10, 11 foot hollow copies of the Hawaiian boards nearly reached the stage where a light person or a girl could carry them. Bolsa boards at around about 10 feet were the breakthrough. A girl could carry one of those, and that's when the possibilities of all people surfing really arose. By the time the first foam boards came along, not necessarily the polystyrene boards covered with epoxy, they were light, but they had so many structural problems. of one kind or another, that they were totally suitable for mass market.

 Level 0 Summary 10 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 220 time 131907-144548
SOURCE TEXT:
By the time the urethane foam boards came along, the weight of the surfboard had been reduced, say from the early days, from something like 100 pounds down to something like 15 pounds and less. And many people experimented with shape and construction and not all of the changes that occur can be credited to any single individual. There was mostly a second C approach all the way down the line to design. One of the shortest boards I ever saw was a six foot six, Dave Jackman wrote it. made out of polystyrene and epoxy made for him by Greg McDonough. Very early in the piece. It could have even been before the Bolsheviks, I'm not sure. But maybe it wasn't. Maybe it was when we had phone boards covered with fiberglass. But I'm not sure. 1959, I think I... perhaps even made a boxer board that was down around six feet six. I abandoned it for all the obvious reasons at the time. Wave catching is, you couldn't ride big waves with it, etc, etc. As surfboards supposedly progressed and got smaller and smaller, more fins were attached. Basically, the reason was for nobility on the wave. Like dancing, surfing, change, it appeared to be simple at first and then it became complex and then it became specialised.

 Level 0 Summary 11 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 214 time 144732-153729
SOURCE TEXT:
Till today the modern surfboard can only be written by a very light person or a very athletic person. And the surfboard manufacturing industry has actually painted itself into a corner which it is now desperately trying to get out of. Because there aren't enough small light physically aggressive people to buy them. So we went from single fins to twins to triads to quads to five and have a five fin that works nicely on bigger waves. But basically All the changes that have been made at a time when, like that saying, nothing can stop an idea whose time has come, had come. And to an outsider, the variety of fins doesn't really make any sense, but it's actually the balance of the board on the wave that counts. And a single fin balance doesn't compare with a twin fin balance. A tri fin doesn't compare and a four fin. A quad fin doesn't compare and a penta fin doesn't compare. It's all a balance that can be achieved by reducing the size of each fin and its position on the board. And it is the rider who sort of understands this best. When the board is locked into a wave by one fin, it has that feeling of being locked in.

 Level 0 Summary 12 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 221 time 153812-163479
SOURCE TEXT:
when a board is held onto the wave face by a variety of small fins, it is only barely held onto the wave face. So the board is actually skating around and a more fluid style of surfing is achieved. More fluid, spontaneous, creative style of surfing is achieved. Modern skateboarding is totally different to the original skateboarding. Modern dancing is the same. It's more spontaneous. Much less predictable. It can go in any direction and it's quite delightful for the eye to watch. One of the disadvantages of very small boards is it can be maneuver limiting unless the surfer is very good and does have a wide range of maneuvers. However, today we find that a good surf shop will carry single fins, twin fins, tri-fins, four fins in small surfboards below six feet. We'll carry longer boards in the six foot, six to seven foot range for the surfer say five years ago. We'll carry eight foot to nine foot boards within the single fin tri-fin range for surfers of say ten or twelve years ago and In my factory now I manufacture boards at 9 foot 6 with single fins for surface of 20 years ago and a wave can be written with any of these boards, with a boogie board, a knee board, a belly board.

 Level 0 Summary 13 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 205 time 163621-175709
SOURCE TEXT:
a wave ski, a sailboard, a surf boat, a paddleboard, flippers only with the body. The good thing about the phase that surfing is going into now in 1984 is that the variety of surfing equipment is so broad and so interesting. Everybody wants to surf on some piece of equipment And it isn't necessary to have to ride what everybody else is riding. And one of the interesting things about today is that everybody has a son or a daughter who surfs. And since we do, since Australians all live on the coastline, it's only natural that they would want to use the ocean. And we are sort of achieving a sort of physical fitness through a sport having arrived at its present stage from those first visits by the Duke, where in fact the surfboard should be considered a health aid. The federal government should remove the 20% sales tax from surfboards. Unfortunately, price of a surfboard is inflated more than it necessarily should be. Surfing was originally considered an obscure eccentric type sport. It became a sub-cultural lifestyle sport but today surfing should be considered a healthy sport, a life-saving sport and It is today fitted so completely into everyday Australian life.

 Level 0 Summary 14 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 211 time 175823-186366
SOURCE TEXT:
Even though it might appear unique to people who don't do it, it is a very normal part of Australian life on the case then. In 1973 I came across Hangliding. It interested me greatly. It was like surfing. It was a unique sport and an individual sport. And it was the opening of the door to a new developing sport. I flew and manufactured hang riders for something like seven years up until 1970. I stopped building hang riders and sort of got interested in surfing and sailboarding again. I saw Hang Lighting Go from me, a pioneer type sport to kind of a relatively popular type sport that had a lot of ups and downs, but is sort of settling into the same kind of slot that sailplaning has settled into. I enjoyed it, learning to fly on the different beaches and the hills. I eventually drew the line when it came to the cross country part because it was going to take me away from the ocean. And I would spend a lot of time driving and not so much time flying. And about that time sailboarding was coming along. Sailboarding was, I've tried sailboarding many years ago in the windsurfing and I didn't enjoy it at all.

 Level 0 Summary 15 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 209 time 186526-195077
SOURCE TEXT:
but then I could see the possibilities of sailboarding on a wave on a small board and I enjoyed the learning process of getting that going for myself and then building the equipment to do it. To the point where I eventually found that all the big waves I could never ride on a surfboard I had to paddle at the back of Longreef around the Bombora so I could ride on a sailboard and I have since found that the sailboarding and surfing actually complement each other. And when the weather is unfavorable for one, you can do the other. So when it's windy and miserable and the surf's being blown up big, you can go out on a sailboard. When it's clean and smooth and you've got perfect waves, you can go and ride a sailboard. Throughout my surfing career, people have always tried to categorise my surfing. And just when they think they've got me down, suddenly they turn around and look and I've changed. And the good thing about surfing is it does change. The style changes. A lot of people feel compelled to say that they came from a period where the star was such and such, I don't feel that way at all.

 Level 0 Summary 16 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 203 time 195217-202435
SOURCE TEXT:
I changed to sit the equipment, to sit the wave. A lot of people think there are ideal surfing breaks, I don't. I think that any surfing break is ideal provided that you can get what you want out of it. I learnt to ride in bad waves because I sharpened my reflexes in bad waves. When I had to learn to ride big waves, I had to go to Hawaii. When I had to learn to ride long, easy, soft, gentle waves, I went to Queensland. But I don't have any preference. I think variety is the important thing. Likewise, it is with your surfing style. You have to keep changing to stay interested. And one of the reasons I went and hang lighting on, I go sailboarding is because it's an alternative. So I can come back and look at surfing and say, This is still fun sort of thing, and I've got something to learn here. If I was going to teach somebody to surf, basically all I would say to them, well, there is the wave, this is the board that suits that wave, and all you have to do is get what you want out of that wave.

 Level 0 Summary 17 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 223 time 202439-215479
SOURCE TEXT:
If you only want to ride it in laying down, then do that, if that's what makes you happy. If you want to become a high-performance professional star surfing competitor, you've got to work hard at a great variety of maneuvers and become a total athlete. Some of the surface that I came across There are actually too many of them. It started with local type of watermen, like Dave Jackman writing the Queenscliff Bombora. It started with fellas who were good swimmers and good servers like Sugar Robinson from Harbour. It started with a lot of big wave riders in Hawaii who were fantastic physical athletes, and good wave riders as well. But also like Ricky Grign who could ride any huge wave in Hawaii. People like Pat Curran who could ride the biggest surf of the year, sit down and work out when the biggest wave would come, where to position yourself. People like Greg Noll who could not avoid going out on the biggest day of the year and trying to catch the biggest wave in Hawaii. People like Jose Angel who could paddle out at the wrong side of the Benzo pipeline and catch huge pipeline waves, ride huge sunset, ride huge wind here, ride any huge wave or try to There have been too many good surfers tonight.

 Level 0 Summary 18 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 214 time 215703-229715
SOURCE TEXT:
Australian surfers, they were really good. There's always been people like, some people you don't hear a lot of, like Bobby Brown was an exceptional surfer in bigger small waves. Later on, well-known surfers were actually more manufactured identities. And it isn't until the latest crop of surfers that I sort of feel that you're reaching a point where you're getting people who have actually been tested, their metals being tested in the fire. Mark Richards is an exception. an exceptional server. He has proven himself on contest results only. And now people like Tom Cowell are establishing themselves as terrific athletes and intelligent competitors. I think Professional contests now are actually a genuine yardstick of ability. And a lot of the fabricated stars of the late middle 60s, early 70s, you know, have a lot of trouble measuring it in any form at all. A lot of the fellows that I competed against who lost to me in the early days that were Hawaiians and Californians like Mike Dewey, you know, the guys who sort of did it with that good sportsman-like dignity, I really appreciate it. I learn a lot from them. You know, the people you know, who later went on to beat me, you know, guys like Oby Brown and...

 Level 0 Summary 19 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 201 time 230027-240208
SOURCE TEXT:
and, uh, surface like Ralph Van Ness, uh, you know, who did it with dignity and style. They really impressed me, uh, over the years sort of thing. And I think one of the things that I really like now is looking at that some of the young guys who have won, Mark Richards has done a lot with a lot of style, with a lot of dignity. The incredible thing about Mark Richards is he has been a fantastic competitor and in the real sense of the word he's competed in tiny waves. In Japan he's competed in huge waves in Hawaii and really if you sort of transfer that to any other sport you know he is if McEnroe had operated with the same dignity and achieved the same sort of reputation, he would be sort of regarded in a different light. And now that Tommy Carroll has sort of set himself on a path of pure athletic achievement and intelligence from going from country to country, You're stepping into a different realm there. It's hard to believe that Cassius Clay's mouth did anything for him other than to lead him into situations he should never have got into.

 Level 0 Summary 20 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 206 time 240346-251133
SOURCE TEXT:
It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.

 Level 0 Summary 21 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 15 time 251191-251900
SOURCE TEXT:
Man having some limited control over the moving ocean, and he's bored, and he's bored.

===> Level 1 summary count: 6

 Level 1 Summary 0 source from 0 to 4  Words: 165 time 238-72020
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing competitions, sponsored by Ed Holt, which were more focused on trophies than monetary prizes. The first contest at Manning Beach in May 1964 attracted a large crowd and was a success, leading to the establishment of the first World Circuit contest. Farrelly, unaware of the broader implications, focused on surfboard building, initially working with Gordon Woods before starting his own venture in Palm Beach. He also mentions his involvement with skateboarding, creating the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard, which, despite its rudimentary design, was the only product on the market for a time. Farrelly reflects on the shift in surfing culture during the 1960s, influenced by the counterculture movement, which led to a focus on the "mystical lifestyle" over competitive surfing. This period saw surfing's history tainted by the association with dope culture, which took years to dissipate. Despite these challenges, Farrelly notes that surfing remained a natural sport, with world contests continuing to be held.

 Level 1 Summary 1 source from 5 to 9  Words: 194 time 72434-131905
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the evolution of surfing from a subcultural phenomenon to a respected sport. Initially, surfing was seen as a lifestyle, but it faced challenges in gaining sponsorship and public esteem due to its association with a subculture. However, by the 1970s, a new generation of surfers sought to redefine the sport, focusing on its healthy, competitive aspects. This shift was partly due to the efforts of individuals like Mark Warren and Graham Cassidy, who aimed to restore surfing's former glory. Farrelly, who had been involved in surfing competitions since the 1960s, continued to participate despite the sport's changing dynamics. His nickname, "Midget," originated from his small stature and the use of a short surfboard in his youth. Farrelly also discusses the progression of surfboards from heavy, long boards used by Hawaiian royalty to the lightweight, hollow boards that made surfing accessible to a broader audience, including women. The transition to foam boards marked a significant milestone, making surfing more practical for the general public. Farrelly's personal journey through hang gliding and his continued invitations to surfing contests highlight the enduring appeal and revival of surfing as a sport.

 Level 1 Summary 2 source from 10 to 14  Words: 209 time 131907-186366
SUMMARY TEXT:
The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the evolution of surfboard design and the broadening of surfing equipment. Farrelly notes the significant reduction in surfboard weight from early days to the introduction of urethane foam boards, which dropped from around 100 pounds to less than 15 pounds. He acknowledges that while not all design changes can be attributed to a single person, there was a trend towards shorter boards, with one of the shortest being a six-foot-six board made by Greg McDonough. The progression of surfboard design also saw the addition of more fins for better wave control, leading to a variety of fin setups from single fins to quads and penta fins. Farrelly explains that the balance and maneuverability of the board are crucial, with smaller fins allowing for a more fluid and spontaneous surfing style. He also touches on the diversification of surfing equipment, from boogie boards to sailboards, and the increasing popularity of surfing among younger generations. Farrelly expresses a desire for the federal government to remove the sales tax on surfboards, citing the sport's health benefits and its integration into Australian culture. He briefly mentions his past involvement with hanglifting and sailboarding, noting the sport's growth and his eventual focus back on surfing.

 Level 1 Summary 3 source from 15 to 19  Words: 130 time 186526-240208
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his diverse experiences in surfing and sailboarding, highlighting the evolution of his surfing style and the changing nature of the sport. He emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. Farrelly reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. He praises Mark Richards for his competitive style and dignity, and looks forward to the emergence of young surfers like Tommy Carroll. Farrelly also touches on the influence of personalities like Cassius Clay in sports, suggesting that reputation and dignity are crucial. Overall, Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.

 Level 1 Summary 4 source from 20 to 20  Words: 340 time 240346-251133
SUMMARY TEXT:
The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the state of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if surfers maintain the sport's essence. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that, when combined with an intelligent mind, can evoke the same awe as historic explorers like Cook experienced upon witnessing the waves of the sandwich islands or Polynesia. The conversation suggests that surfing's allure lies in its natural appeal and the thrill of mastering the waves, provided it remains true to its roots and avoids being manipulated by managers.


It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.

The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the essence of competitive surfing, highlighting its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport maintains its core values.

 Level 1 Summary 5 source from 21 to 21  Words: 10 time 251191-251900
SUMMARY TEXT:
Man bored with limited control over the ocean.

===> Level 2 summary count: 2

 Level 2 Summary 0 source from 0 to 3  Words: 222 time 238-240208
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing competitions, sponsored by Ed Holt, which were more focused on trophies than monetary prizes. The first contest at Manning Beach in May 1964 was a success, leading to the establishment of the first World Circuit contest. Farrelly, unaware of the broader implications, focused on surfboard building, initially working with Gordon Woods before starting his own venture in Palm Beach. He also mentions his involvement with skateboarding, creating the Midget Fairleigh Skateboard, which was the only product on the market for a time. Farrelly reflects on the shift in surfing culture during the 1960s, influenced by the counterculture movement, which led to a focus on the "mystical lifestyle" over competitive surfing. Despite challenges, surfing remained a natural sport, with world contests continuing to be held. Farrelly notes the evolution of surfing from a subcultural phenomenon to a respected sport. He discusses the progression of surfboard design and the broadening of surfing equipment. Farrelly emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. He reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.

 Level 2 Summary 1 source from 4 to 5  Words: 141 time 240346-251900
SUMMARY TEXT:
In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the essence of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport remains true to its roots. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that can evoke awe similar to historic explorers. He stresses the importance of surfers maintaining the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers. Farrelly believes that if surfers stay true to the basics and do not succumb to publicity, competitive surfing can regain its glamorous reputation. He highlights the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration and admiration. Farrelly's perspective suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to preserve its purity and connection to the natural world.

===> Level 3 summary count: 1

 Level 3 Summary 0 source from 0 to 1  Words: 169 time 238-251900
SUMMARY TEXT:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
REVERSED hierarchy
S 	level 0 source from 0 to 1  Words: 169 time 238-251900
   S00 	level 1 source from 0 to 3  Words: 222 time 238-240208
      S00-00 	level 2 source from 0 to 4  Words: 165 time 238-72020
         T00-00-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 205 time 238-15597
         T00-00-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 220 time 15747-29173
         T00-00-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 234 time 29326-39579
         T00-00-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 250 time 40173-58901
         T00-00-04 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 201 time 58989-72020
      S00-01 	level 2 source from 5 to 9  Words: 194 time 72434-131905
         T00-01-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 200 time 72434-84526
         T00-01-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 243 time 84729-99421
         T00-01-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 207 time 99505-111932
         T00-01-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 212 time 112104-121217
         T00-01-04 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 208 time 121375-131905
      S00-02 	level 2 source from 10 to 14  Words: 209 time 131907-186366
         T00-02-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 220 time 131907-144548
         T00-02-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 214 time 144732-153729
         T00-02-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 221 time 153812-163479
         T00-02-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 205 time 163621-175709
         T00-02-04 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 211 time 175823-186366
      S00-03 	level 2 source from 15 to 19  Words: 130 time 186526-240208
         T00-03-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 209 time 186526-195077
         T00-03-01 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 203 time 195217-202435
         T00-03-02 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 223 time 202439-215479
         T00-03-03 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 214 time 215703-229715
         T00-03-04 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 201 time 230027-240208
   S01 	level 1 source from 4 to 5  Words: 141 time 240346-251900
      S01-00 	level 2 source from 20 to 20  Words: 340 time 240346-251133
         T01-00-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 206 time 240346-251133
      S01-01 	level 2 source from 21 to 21  Words: 10 time 251191-251900
         T01-01-00 	level 3 source from undefined to undefined  Words: 15 time 251191-251900
SESSION SUMMARY: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
about to update session with contents id:nla.obj-203494642
getSessionsAndParts done for nla.obj-203494363
gms embedding=768
session update done
deleting parts
Deleting solr core audio2SessionPart  query: sessionId:"nla.obj-203494642"
solrDelete  query: sessionId:"nla.obj-203494642" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":5}}
parts deleted
About to add parts to SOLR
Added 31 parts
deleting from cache:nla.obj-203494363
Deleting solr core audioReindexQueue  query: docid:"nla.obj-203494642" AND timestamp:[-999999999 TO 1724976479]
solrDelete  query: docid:"nla.obj-203494642" AND timestamp:[-999999999 TO 1724976479] result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":0}}
Got audio to summarise from reindex queue: {"id":"1724976460287","timestamp":1724976460,"docid":"**INTERVIEW**nla.obj-203494363","transcriptJson":["{}"]}...
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
getInterview http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2Interview/select?wt=json&rows=1&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=interviewId,title,subtitle,collection,interviewee,interviewer,sponsor,yyyymmdd,loadedBy,loadedDate,summary,comment,embedding
getInterview status: 200
GOT IV [object Object]
getSessionsAndParts iv:nla.obj-203494363 session count:2
about to get http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2SessionPart/select?wt=json&rows=9999&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=sessionId,sessionSeq,partType,partId,startcs,endcs,content,sessionTranscript,embedding,indexToLowerContent&sort=sessionSeq asc, partId asc
getSessionsAndParts done for nla.obj-203494363
createInterviewSummaryFromSessionSummaries iv= nla.obj-203494363, session count=2

========== ======= ==== Returned interview summary: 
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.

In the second session, Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to
about to update interview with summary id:nla.obj-203494363
interview update done
deleting IV part
Deleting solr core audio2SessionPart  query: interviewId:nla.obj-203494363 AND partType:"I"
solrDelete  query: interviewId:nla.obj-203494363 AND partType:"I" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":4}}
IV part deleted
About to add parts to SOLR
Added INTERVIEW 1 parts
deleting from cache:nla.obj-203494363

XXXXXXXXXX
buildIndexToLowerContent for iv nla.obj-203494363

summary:
Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.

In the second session, Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to
sentencesI:14
-->Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. 
-->Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. 
-->Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. 
-->He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. 
-->Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. 
-->He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. 
-->Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. 
-->He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. 
-->The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.

-->

-->In the second session, Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. 
-->He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. 
-->Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. 
-->He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to
getting sessions 
 got session 0 - nla.obj-203494374 parts:[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]
 GOT PART S
 GOT PART S00
 GOT PART S00-00
 GOT PART T00-00-00
 GOT PART T00-00-01
 GOT PART T00-00-02
 GOT PART T00-00-03
 GOT PART T00-00-04
 GOT PART S00-01
 GOT PART T00-01-00
 GOT PART T00-01-01
 GOT PART T00-01-02
 GOT PART T00-01-03
 GOT PART T00-01-04
 GOT PART S00-02
 GOT PART T00-02-00
 GOT PART S00-03
 GOT PART T00-03-00
 GOT PART T00-03-01
 GOT PART T00-03-02
 GOT PART T00-03-03
 GOT PART T00-03-04
 GOT PART S01
 GOT PART S01-00
 GOT PART T01-00-00
 GOT PART T01-00-01
 GOT PART T01-00-02
 GOT PART T01-00-03
 GOT PART S01-01
 GOT PART T01-01-00
 got session 1 - nla.obj-203494642 parts:[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]
 GOT PART S
 GOT PART S00
 GOT PART S00-00
 GOT PART T00-00-00
 GOT PART T00-00-01
 GOT PART T00-00-02
 GOT PART T00-00-03
 GOT PART T00-00-04
 GOT PART S00-01
 GOT PART T00-01-00
 GOT PART T00-01-01
 GOT PART T00-01-02
 GOT PART T00-01-03
 GOT PART T00-01-04
 GOT PART S00-02
 GOT PART T00-02-00
 GOT PART T00-02-01
 GOT PART T00-02-02
 GOT PART T00-02-03
 GOT PART T00-02-04
 GOT PART S00-03
 GOT PART T00-03-00
 GOT PART T00-03-01
 GOT PART T00-03-02
 GOT PART T00-03-03
 GOT PART T00-03-04
 GOT PART S01
 GOT PART S01-00
 GOT PART T01-00-00
 GOT PART S01-01
 GOT PART T01-01-00
*matchSummaryAndDetailSentences  matchingSessionPrefix=null
sentences: 14
BEST match for Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools.
WAS score 0.9049908881265263 part 0/S00-00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly, an Australian and international surf rider, recounts his surfing journey starting from his early childhood experiences at North Bondi, where he was initially terrified of surfing. His father's dissatisfaction with Australia led the family to live in Wales, Canada, and New Zealand, exposing Bernard to different cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, Bernard began surfing using a long wooden board found on the beach. He later transitioned to shorter bolster boards after witnessing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Bernard's surfing career spans from the 1963 Makaha International to his Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, with notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. His journey reflects a growing passion for surfing, influenced by international exposure and the evolution of surfboard technology.
BEST match for Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team.
WAS score 0.8403514134497934 part 0/S00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.
BEST match for Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships.
WAS score 0.7710692773729654 part 0/S00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.
BEST match for He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials.
WAS score 0.7834907691636205 part 0/S00-01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.
BEST match for Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films.
WAS score 0.8543516503216626 part 0/S00-01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.
BEST match for He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing.
WAS score 0.8488120860144341 part 0/S00-01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.
BEST match for Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture.
WAS score 0.9122783937440202 part 0/S00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.
BEST match for He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest.
WAS score 0.9030255268541264 part 0/S01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii during the winters of 61-62 and 62-63, highlighting his victory in the Minokaha contest and the subsequent popularity surge in Australia. He addresses the tension between board riders and surf clubs, which led to attempts to ban surfing and register surfboards. Farrelly also talks about the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, supported by Ampol, which sought to organize a world surfing contest. He reflects on the association's ground rules and the eventual formation of a world contest body. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to institutionalize the sport.
BEST match for The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.
WAS score 0.8317955172496369 part 1/S01-00: The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the state of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if surfers maintain the sport's essence. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that, when combined with an intelligent mind, can evoke the same awe as historic explorers like Cook experienced upon witnessing the waves of the sandwich islands or Polynesia. The conversation suggests that surfing's allure lies in its natural appeal and the thrill of mastering the waves, provided it remains true to its roots and avoids being manipulated by managers.


It's hard to believe that Mackinac's mouth has done anything for him. other than to make him a little bit unhappier in some respects. When you look at purability and the will to win going from country to country, from surf to surf, when you look at the path that surfing has taken from the middle of the 70s and provided that The managers don't sort of try and pervert it and twist it. The same way one or two of them tried in the late 60s, surfing has a relatively good future. If the surfers don't believe their own publicity and if they can sort of stay with the basics, then competitive surfing in a team which has a fantastic chance of being as glamorous as it has been in the past. It's glamorous from the point of view that the ocean is beautiful, wave riding is quite beautiful. It's a very healthy sport. Put that together with an intelligent mind and you've got a similar feeling to what Cook must have had when he first sailed into the sandwich islands or when he first sailed into Polynesia and saw the islands riding the waves. It must have been a very impressive sight to him.

The interview with Bernard "Midget" Farrelly reflects on the essence of competitive surfing, highlighting its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport maintains its core values.
BEST match for In the second session, Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding.
WAS score 0.859132622037665 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing.
WAS score 0.8102668720674642 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs.
WAS score 0.8853817159827736 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to
WAS score 0.7681450866091855 part 1/S00-03: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his diverse experiences in surfing and sailboarding, highlighting the evolution of his surfing style and the changing nature of the sport. He emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. Farrelly reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. He praises Mark Richards for his competitive style and dignity, and looks forward to the emergence of young surfers like Tommy Carroll. Farrelly also touches on the influence of personalities like Cassius Clay in sports, suggesting that reputation and dignity are crucial. Overall, Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.
====INTERVIEW indexToLowerContent: 0/S00-00 0/S00 0/S00 0/S00-01 0/S00-01 0/S00-01 0/S00 0/S01 1/S01-00 1/S 1/S 1/S 1/S00-03

updateSessionPartSOLR query is interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"-" AND partId:"I"
about to delete audio2SessionPart with id:nla.obj-203494363 /  -/I
Deleting solr core audio2SessionPart  query: interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"-" AND partId:"I"
solrDelete  query: interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"-" AND partId:"I" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":4}}
interview update done

 =====>got session 0 - nla.obj-203494374 parts:[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

summary:Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.
sentencesS:9
SSSS-->Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. 
SSSS-->Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team. 
SSSS-->Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships. 
SSSS-->He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. 
SSSS-->Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films. 
SSSS-->He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing. 
SSSS-->Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture. 
SSSS-->He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest. 
SSSS-->The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.
*matchSummaryAndDetailSentences  matchingSessionPrefix=0/
sentences: 9
BEST match for Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his surfing journey, starting with early fears and family relocations that introduced him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools.
WAS score 0.9049908881265263 part 0/S00-00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly, an Australian and international surf rider, recounts his surfing journey starting from his early childhood experiences at North Bondi, where he was initially terrified of surfing. His father's dissatisfaction with Australia led the family to live in Wales, Canada, and New Zealand, exposing Bernard to different cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, Bernard began surfing using a long wooden board found on the beach. He later transitioned to shorter bolster boards after witnessing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Bernard's surfing career spans from the 1963 Makaha International to his Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, with notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. His journey reflects a growing passion for surfing, influenced by international exposure and the evolution of surfboard technology.
BEST match for Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with wooden boards and later switched to bolster boards after observing the Hawaiian Olympic team.
WAS score 0.8403514134497934 part 0/S00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.
BEST match for Farrelly achieved Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and participated in the 1965 World Championships.
WAS score 0.7710692773729654 part 0/S00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.
BEST match for He discusses his role in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials.
WAS score 0.7834907691636205 part 0/S00-01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.
BEST match for Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films.
WAS score 0.8543516503216626 part 0/S00-01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.
BEST match for He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960 and the evolution of surfboard manufacturing.
WAS score 0.8488120860144341 part 0/S00-01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts his early involvement with surfboard manufacturing in Australia during the late 1950s and early 1960s. He discusses the transition from hollow balsa boards to experimenting with polystyrene boards, mentioning pioneers like Roger Kieran, who produced short Hawaiian-style balsa boards. Farrelly also notes the challenges of sourcing balsa wood and the eventual adoption of Bolsa for its structural integrity and ease of use with polyester resins and fiberglass. He worked at Barry Bennett Surfboards, initially making fins and later glassing and shaping surfboards. Farrelly describes surfing as a sport within the surf club movement, with a shift towards individualism and an alternative lifestyle, influenced by rock and roll music and surfing films. He recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960, inspired by the lifestyle depicted in surfing movies. Farrelly's narrative captures the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the broader cultural shift towards surfing as a more individualistic and glamorous pursuit.
BEST match for Farrelly's experiences in Hawaii, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, deepened his passion for big wave surfing and influenced Australian surfing culture.
WAS score 0.9122783937440202 part 0/S00: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly shares his surfing journey, starting with early fears and a family's international relocations, which exposed him to diverse cultures and coeducational schools. Returning to Australia in 1955, he began surfing with a long wooden board and later adopted shorter bolster boards after seeing the Hawaiian Olympic team. Farrelly's career includes Australian championships in 1964, 1965, and 1966, and notable performances in the 1965 World Championships. He recounts his involvement in surfboard manufacturing, transitioning from hollow balsa boards to polystyrene boards, and the challenges of sourcing materials. Farrelly describes surfing as part of the surf club movement, influenced by rock and roll and surfing films, and recalls a group of Australians sailing to Hawaii in 1960. His narrative covers the evolution of surfboard manufacturing and the cultural shift towards surfing as an individualistic pursuit. Farrelly's journey to Hawaii and his experiences there, including witnessing big wave surfing and participating in the Makaha contest, highlight his deepening passion for big wave surfing and the influence of American shapers and surfing movies on Australian surfing culture.
BEST match for He also discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii, his victory in the Minokaha contest, the popularity surge in Australia, tensions between board riders and surf clubs, the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, and efforts to institutionalize the sport through a world surfing contest.
WAS score 0.9030255268541264 part 0/S01: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the early surfing scene in Hawaii during the winters of 61-62 and 62-63, highlighting his victory in the Minokaha contest and the subsequent popularity surge in Australia. He addresses the tension between board riders and surf clubs, which led to attempts to ban surfing and register surfboards. Farrelly also talks about the creation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, supported by Ampol, which sought to organize a world surfing contest. He reflects on the association's ground rules and the eventual formation of a world contest body. The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to institutionalize the sport.
BEST match for The interview covers the spread of surfing's popularity and the efforts to organize the sport.
WAS score 0.8265017664909717 part 0/S01-00: In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly recounts the early days of surfing in Hawaii and its impact on Australia. He mentions the Hawaiian winters of 61-62 and 62-63, during which he won the Minokaha contest and experienced a surge in surfing popularity. Farrelly notes that the event caused a ripple effect in Australia, leading to a growing appreciation and excitement for surfing. He describes the conflict between board riders and surf clubs, with the latter attempting to suppress surfing through various means, including banning it at beaches and registering surfboards. Farrelly also discusses the formation of the Australian Surfers Association in 1964, which was supported by Ampol, a petroleum company. The association aimed to promote surfing and organize a world contest, bringing together surfers from around the world. Farrelly reflects on the ground rules set by the association and the eventual establishment of a world contest body.
====SESSION indexToLowerContent: 0/S00-00 0/S00 0/S00 0/S00-01 0/S00-01 0/S00-01 0/S00 0/S01 0/S01-00

updateSessionPartSOLR query is interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"nla.obj-203494374" AND partId:"S"
about to delete audio2SessionPart with id:nla.obj-203494363 /  nla.obj-203494374/S
Deleting solr core audio2SessionPart  query: interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"nla.obj-203494374" AND partId:"S"
solrDelete  query: interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"nla.obj-203494374" AND partId:"S" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":4}}
interview update done

 =====>got session 1 - nla.obj-203494642 parts:[object Object],[object Object],[object Object]

summary:Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
sentencesS:8
SSSS-->Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. 
SSSS-->He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. 
SSSS-->Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. 
SSSS-->He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. 
SSSS-->Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. 
SSSS-->He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. 
SSSS-->Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. 
SSSS-->He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
*matchSummaryAndDetailSentences  matchingSessionPrefix=1/
sentences: 8
BEST match for Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding.
WAS score 0.9244598808358065 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing.
WAS score 0.8102668720674642 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs.
WAS score 0.8853817159827736 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve.
WAS score 0.7790171620106132 part 1/S00-03: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses his diverse experiences in surfing and sailboarding, highlighting the evolution of his surfing style and the changing nature of the sport. He emphasizes the importance of adaptability, learning from various surfing conditions, and the need for surfers to continuously evolve. Farrelly reflects on the history of surfing, acknowledging the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards more genuine talent in professional contests. He praises Mark Richards for his competitive style and dignity, and looks forward to the emergence of young surfers like Tommy Carroll. Farrelly also touches on the influence of personalities like Cassius Clay in sports, suggesting that reputation and dignity are crucial. Overall, Farrelly values the dynamic and ever-changing aspects of surfing, both as a sport and as a personal journey.
BEST match for Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests.
WAS score 0.8571544825051836 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots.
WAS score 0.8142106966739412 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration.
WAS score 0.8770182982449717 part 1/S: Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the origins of surfing competitions and his early involvement in surfboard building and skateboarding. He reflects on the 1960s surfing culture shift due to the counterculture movement, emphasizing the mystical lifestyle over competitive surfing. Farrelly notes the continuation of world contests and the evolution of surfing into a respected sport with advanced surfboard designs. He stresses the importance of adaptability, learning from various conditions, and the need for surfers to evolve. Farrelly acknowledges the contributions of early surfers and the shift towards genuine talent in professional contests. He values the dynamic nature of surfing and its potential for a glamorous future if it remains true to its roots. Farrelly believes in preserving the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers, highlighting the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration. He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
BEST match for He suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to maintain its purity and connection to the natural world.
WAS score 0.8297568106850826 part 1/S01: In the interview, Bernard "Midget" Farrelly discusses the essence of competitive surfing, emphasizing its purity and the potential for a glamorous future if the sport remains true to its roots. Farrelly reflects on the beauty of the ocean and wave riding, considering it a healthy sport that can evoke awe similar to historic explorers. He stresses the importance of surfers maintaining the sport's essence and avoiding manipulation by managers. Farrelly believes that if surfers stay true to the basics and do not succumb to publicity, competitive surfing can regain its glamorous reputation. He highlights the natural appeal of surfing and the combination of an intelligent mind with the sport as a source of inspiration and admiration. Farrelly's perspective suggests that the future of competitive surfing lies in its ability to preserve its purity and connection to the natural world.
====SESSION indexToLowerContent: 1/S 1/S 1/S 1/S00-03 1/S 1/S 1/S 1/S01

updateSessionPartSOLR query is interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"nla.obj-203494642" AND partId:"S"
about to delete audio2SessionPart with id:nla.obj-203494363 /  nla.obj-203494642/S
Deleting solr core audio2SessionPart  query: interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"nla.obj-203494642" AND partId:"S"
solrDelete  query: interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363" AND sessionId:"nla.obj-203494642" AND partId:"S" result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":4}}
interview update done
Deleting solr core audioReindexQueue  query: docid:"**INTERVIEW**nla.obj-203494363" AND timestamp:[-999999999 TO 1724976514]
solrDelete  query: docid:"**INTERVIEW**nla.obj-203494363" AND timestamp:[-999999999 TO 1724976514] result: {"responseHeader":{"status":0,"QTime":0}}
Nothing in reindex queue
getInterview id=nla.obj-203494363
getInterview http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2Interview/select?wt=json&rows=1&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=interviewId,title,subtitle,collection,interviewee,interviewer,sponsor,yyyymmdd,loadedBy,loadedDate,summary,comment,embedding
getInterview status: 200
GOT IV [object Object]
getSessionsAndParts iv:nla.obj-203494363 session count:2
about to get http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/audio2SessionPart/select?wt=json&rows=9999&q=interviewId:"nla.obj-203494363"&fl=sessionId,sessionSeq,partType,partId,startcs,endcs,content,sessionTranscript,embedding,indexToLowerContent&sort=sessionSeq asc, partId asc
getSessionsAndParts done for nla.obj-203494363
gms embedding=768
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
Nothing in reindex queue
